health care , or healthcare , is the improvement of health via the prevention , diagnosis , treatment , amelioration or cure of disease , illness , injury , and other physical and mental impairments in people . health care is delivered by health professionals and allied health fields . medicine , dentistry , pharmacy , midwifery , nursing , optometry , audiology , psychology , occupational therapy , physical therapy , athletic training , and other health professions all constitute health care . the term includes work done in providing primary care , secondary care , tertiary care , and public health . access to healthcare may vary across countries , communities , and individuals , influenced by social and economic conditions and health policies . providing health care services means " the timely use of personal health services to achieve the best possible health outcomes " . factors to consider in terms of healthcare access include financial limitations ( such as insurance coverage ) , geographical and logistical barriers ( such as additional transportation costs and the ability to take paid time off work to use such services ) , sociocultural expectations , and personal limitations ( lack of ability to communicate with health care providers , poor health literacy , low income ) . limitations to health care services affect negatively the use of medical services , the efficacy of treatments , and overall outcome ( well-being , mortality rates ) . health systems are the organizations established to meet the health needs of targeted populations . according to the world health organization ( who ) , a well-functioning healthcare system requires a financing mechanism , a well-trained and adequately paid workforce , reliable information on which to base decisions and policies , and well-maintained health facilities to deliver quality medicines and technologies . an efficient healthcare system can contribute to a significant part of a country's economy , development , and industrialization . health care is an important determinant in promoting the general physical and mental health and well-being of people around the world . an example of this was the worldwide eradication of smallpox in 1980 , declared by the who , as the first disease in human history to be eliminated by deliberate healthcare interventions . the international agency for research on cancer ( iarc ; french : centre international de recherche sur le cancer , circ ) is an intergovernmental agency forming part of the world health organization of the united nations . its role is to conduct and coordinate research into the causes of cancer . it also collects and publishes surveillance data regarding the occurrence of cancer worldwide . its iarc monographs programme identifies carcinogenic hazards and evaluates environmental causes of cancer in humans . iarc has its own governing council , and in 1965 the first members were west germany , france , italy , the united kingdom , and the united states of america . today , iarc's membership has grown to 29 countries . a reproductive system disease is any disease of the human reproductive system . cancer in adolescents and young adults is cancer which occurs in those between the ages of 15 and 39 . this occurs in about 70,000 people a year in the united states—accounting for about 5 percent of cancers . this is about six times the number of cancers diagnosed in children ages 0–14 . globally , nearly 1 million young adults between the ages of 20 and 39 were diagnosed with cancer in 2012 , and more than 350,000 people in this age range died from cancer . young adults are more likely than either younger children or older adults to be diagnosed with certain cancers , such as hodgkin lymphoma , testicular cancer , and some types of sarcomas . in adolescents and young adults 15 to 24 years old , lymphoma , testicular cancer , and thyroid cancer are the most common types , while among 25 - to 39-year-olds , breast cancer and melanoma are more common . the animal health trust ( aht ) was a large national independent charity in the united kingdom , employing 200 scientists , veterinarians and support workers . its objectives were to study and cure diseases in pets ( horses , dogs and cats ) , and research and postgraduate education in veterinary medicine . it was founded in 1942 by wr wooldridge , and was awarded a royal charter on 29 july 1963 . elizabeth ii was the charity's patron from 1959 until the end of 2016 , and the princess royal was its president . based in newmarket in suffolk , it was a registered charity under english law and received no government funding . following fundraising issues exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic , the charity entered liquidation on 31 july 2020 . research of the aht was in two main areas : inherited disease and infectious disease . inherited disease research includes genetics , oncology and stem cell research . infectious disease includes bacteriology , virology , immunology and equine epidemiology and disease surveillance . its clinics ran active internship and residency training programmes for postgraduate education and training . the aht published research and clinical findings in journals such as nature , and it also had its own open-access library . aht had two clinical centres : the centre for small animal studies and centre for equine studies . both clinics offered diagnostic laboratories and dna testing services and conducted research . health equity arises from access to the social determinants of health , specifically from wealth , power and prestige . individuals who have consistently been deprived of these three determinants are significantly disadvantaged from health inequities , and face worse health outcomes than those who are able to access certain resources . it is not equity to simply provide every individual with the same resources ; that would be equality . in order to achieve health equity , resources must be allocated based on an individual need-based principle . according to the world health organization , " health is a state of complete physical , mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity " . the quality of health and how health is distributed among economic and social status in a society can provide insight into the level of development within that society . health is a basic human right and human need , and all human rights are interconnected . thus , health must be discussed along with all other basic human rights . health equity is defined by the cdc as " the state in which everyone has a fair and just opportunity to attain their highest level of health " . it is closely associated with the social justice movement , with good health considered a fundamental human right . these inequities may include differences in the " presence of disease , health outcomes , or access to health care " : 3 between populations with a different race , ethnicity , gender , sexual orientation , disability , or socioeconomic status . health inequity differs from health inequality in that the latter term is used in a number of countries to refer to those instances whereby the health of two demographic groups ( not necessarily ethnic or racial groups ) differs despite similar access to health care services . it can be further described as differences in health that are avoidable , unfair , and unjust , and cannot be explained by natural causes , such as biology , or differences in choice . thus , if one population dies younger than another because of genetic differences , which is a non-remediable/controllable factor , the situation would be classified as a health inequality . conversely , if a population has a lower life expectancy due to lack of access to medications , the situation would be classified as a health inequity . these inequities may include differences in the " presence of disease , health outcomes , or access to health care " . although , it is important to recognize the difference in health equity and equality , as having equality in health is essential to begin achieving health equity . the importance of equitable access to healthcare has been cited as crucial to achieving many of the millennium development goals . the trauma center campaign was a grassroots direct action campaign that induced the university of chicago medical center ( ucmc ) to open an adult , level-1 trauma center . the campaign was organized by the trauma care coalition , a coalition of community and student organizations founded in 2010 by the black youth community organization fearless leading by the youth ( fly ) and its parent organization , southside together organizing for power ( stop ) . in december 2015 , after years of protests that attracted national media attention , ucmc met the campaign's demand by announcing plans to establish an adult trauma center . the trauma center opened in 2018 . this reduced the significant racial disparity in access to trauma care in chicago , which previously had no adult , level-1 trauma center on its predominately black south side . the trauma center campaign was part of an upsurge of racial justice activism across the united states in the 2010s that coincided with the rise of the black lives matter movement . trauma center activists employed black lives matter rhetoric and maintained connections to other racial justice struggles in chicago , such as protests around the murder of laquan mcdonald and the # byeanita campaign to prevent the re-election of cook county state's attorney anita alvarez . this is a list of people executed in the united states in 2018 . a total of twenty-five people , all male , were executed in the united states in 2018 ; of whom 23 died by lethal injection and two , in tennessee , by electrocution , marking the first calendar year since 2000 in which more than one inmate was executed in that way . charles winslow hall , born caroline ( may 22 , 1860 – september 29 , 1901 ) was an american artist of animals and portraits . he is best known for having lived as a man for the last ten years of his life while being biologically female , a fact which was only discovered upon his death from consumption in 1901 . few of his artworks survive ; a plaster portrait of the artist joseph frank currier is currently held by the museum of fine arts , boston . the evans county heart study was a long-term cardiovascular study on residents of evans county , georgia . the study , which was funded by the national institute of health , began in july , 1958 , and was last updated as recent as may 2016 . it resulted in more than 560 published papers that ultimately showed the importance of hdl cholesterol . the study was conducted by dr . curtis gordon hames , a family doctor from claxton , georgia . the study took place in evans country because the area had a high death count due to heart complications , such as heart disease and other cardiovascular diseases . the studies showed that there was a significant abundance of heart conditions within a variety of ethnicities . people as young as fourteen and as old as seventy-four participated in the tests , and were divided into different age groups ; however only males were eligible for the study . anyone as old as one-hundred years old could be eligible , and any younger .