in planetary science , any material that has a relatively high equilibrium condensation temperature is called refractory . the opposite of refractory is volatile . the refractory group includes elements and compounds like metals and silicates ( commonly termed rocks ) which make up the bulk of the mass of the terrestrial planets and asteroids in the inner belt . a fraction of the mass of other asteroids , giant planets , their moons and trans-neptunian objects is also made of refractory materials . picenum was a region of ancient italy . the name was assigned by the romans , who conquered and incorporated it into the roman republic . picenum became regio v in the augustan territorial organisation of roman italy . it is now in marche and the northern part of abruzzo . the piceni or picentes were the native population of picenum , but they were not of uniform ethnicity . they maintained a sanctuary to the sabine goddess cupra in cupra marittima . picenum was also the birthplace of such roman notables as pompey the great and his father , pompeius strabo . local history is the study of history in a geographically local context , often concentrating on a relatively small local community . it incorporates cultural and social aspects of history . local history is not merely national history writ small but a study of past events in a given geographical area which is based on a wide variety of documentary evidence and placed in a comparative context that is both regional and national . historic plaques are one form of documentation of significant occurrences in the past and oral histories are another . local history is often documented by local historical societies or groups that form to preserve a local historic building or other historic site . many works of local history are compiled by amateur historians working independently or archivists employed by various organizations . an important aspect of local history is the publication and cataloguing of documents preserved in local or national records which relate to particular areas . in a number of countries a broader concept of local lore is known , which is a comprehensive study of everything pertaining to a certain locality : history , ethnography , geography , natural history , etc . in philosophy , neutrality is the tendency to not take a side in a conflict ( physical or ideological ) , which may not suggest neutral parties do not have a side or are not a side themselves . in colloquial use , neutral can be synonymous with unbiased . however , bias is a favoritism for one side , distinct from the tendency to act on that favoritism . neutrality is distinct ( though not exclusive ) from apathy , ignorance , indifference , doublethink , equality , agreement , and objectivity . apathy and indifference each imply a level of carelessness about a subject , though a person exhibiting neutrality may feel bias on a subject but choose not to act on it . a neutral person can also be well-informed on a subject and therefore need not be ignorant . since they can be biased , a neutral person need not feature doublethink ( i.e . accepting both sides as correct ) , equality ( i.e . viewing both sides as equal ) , or agreement ( a form of group decision-making ; here it would require negotiating a solution on everyone's opinion , including one's own which may not be unbiased ) . objectivity suggests siding with the more reasonable position ( except journalistic objectivity ) , where reasonableness is judged by some common basis between the sides , such as logic ( thereby avoiding the problem of incommensurability ) . neutrality implies tolerance regardless of how disagreeable , deplorable , or unusual a perspective might be . in moderation and mediation , neutrality is often expected to make judgments or facilitate dialogue independent of any bias , emphasizing on the process rather than the outcome . for example , a neutral party is seen as a party with no ( or a fully disclosed ) conflict of interest in a conflict , and is expected to operate as if it has no bias . neutral parties are often perceived as more trustworthy , reliable , and safe . alternative to acting without a bias , the bias of neutrality itself is the expectation upon the swiss government ( in armed neutrality ) , and the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies ( in non-interventionism ) . the oxford english dictionary documents that , by at least 1897 , " neutral " meant applying the rules to the facts , as in football " neutral linesmen shall officiate in all games . " in the supreme court decision board of regents of the university of wisconsin system v . southworth based on the united states constitution's first amendment , the court decided some funding decisions should be made through a neutral viewpoint . dryinopolis or dryinoupolis ( greek : δρυϊνόπολις or δρυϊνούπολις ) is a historical region in southwestern albania and northwestern greece in epirus . the heartland of this region is the valley of the drino ( greek : drinos ) river and dropull/dropolis . a greek-orthodox bishopric under this name was established at 449 ad as well as a theme ( district ) of the byzantine empire and the despotate of epirus ( 10th-14th century ) . today the name of dryinopolis is preserved in the local metropolitan bishopric of the church of greece for the greek part of the region , while the albanian part is under the religious jurisdiction of the metropolis of gjirokaster of the autocephalous orthodox church of albania . the annales martyrum is a medieval iberian annalistic composition that compiles a series of records in chronological order , mostly related to christian martyrs . two medieval versions of this text are known . the first was copied onto a folio added to the so-called códice de azagra in the 10th century and was probably written in the monastery of cardeña . the second is found in the códice de roda , a manuscript produced in la rioja at the end of the 10th century . in this version , the annalistic series is preceded by a list of ten roman emperors who persecuted the christians , titled nomina imperatorum qui christianis persequuti sunt . =  = references =  = chamaecoetae ( ancient greek : χαμαικοῖται ) were an ancient tribe mentioned by greek geographer strabo in his work geographica during the first century ad . some researchers connect them with the ingush and localize them in mountainous ingushetia , in khamkhi , while others question these theories and argue that more arguments are needed . history ( derived from ancient greek ἱστορία ( historía ) ' inquiry ; knowledge acquired by investigation ' ) is the systematic study and documentation of the human past . history is an academic discipline which uses a narrative to describe , examine , question , and analyse past events , and investigate their patterns of cause and effect . historians debate which narrative best explains an event , as well as the significance of different causes and effects . historians debate the nature of history as an end in itself , and its usefulness in giving perspective on the problems of the present . the period of events before the invention of writing systems is considered prehistory . " history " is an umbrella term comprising past events as well as the memory , discovery , collection , organization , presentation , and interpretation of these events . historians seek knowledge of the past using historical sources such as written documents , oral accounts or traditional oral histories , art and material artifacts , and ecological markers . stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding king arthur ) , are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends . history differs from myth in that it is supported by verifiable evidence . however , ancient cultural influences have helped create variant interpretations of the nature of history , which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today . the modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and certain topical or thematic elements of historical investigation . history is taught as a part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of history is a major discipline in universities . herodotus , a 5th-century bce greek historian , is often considered the " father of history " , as one of the first historians in the western tradition , though he has been criticized as the " father of lies " . along with his contemporary thucydides , he helped form the foundations for the modern study of past events and societies . their works continue to be read today , and the gap between the culture-focused herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing . in east asia a state chronicle , the spring and autumn annals , was reputed to date from as early as 722 bce , though only 2nd-century bce texts have survived . the title " father of history " has also been attributed , in their respective societies , to sima qian , ibn khaldun , and kenneth dike . historical culture is a relatively new concept that encompasses " both material and immaterial culture as well as academic and popular articulations " of history . the state palaces , castles and gardens of saxony ( german : staatliche schlösser , burgen und gärten sachsen ) is a state-owned company with its head office in dresden . it belongs to the saxon state ministry of finance and has the aim of preserving saxon cultural heritage whilst respecting cultural and conservation needs . the state-owned company manages several palaces , castles and parks in the saxony . these include the zwinger in dresden , the albrechtsburg in meissen and kriebstein castle . for historical and contemporary jewish populations by country , see jews by country . a redneck joke is a joke about rednecks—working-class , rural , southern white americans . for example , a genie comes upon an african-american , a jew and a redneck . he grants each a wish . the african-american wishes that his people be returned to africa ; the jew that his people be returned to israel . once the redneck realises that all the blacks and jews have left america , he wishes for a beer . these jokes can be a form of classism , depending on the teller . jeff foxworthy is a comedian that specializes in telling redneck jokes . for example : " if you've ever cut your grass and found a car , you might be a redneck . " " if you've ever been too drunk to fish , you might be a redneck . " " if you've ever made change in the offering plate . .  . . guilty . .  . . you might be a redneck . " " if you have no cars that are mobile and 14 cars that aren't , then you might be a redneck . " hugh llewellyn keenleyside , cc ( 7 july 1898 – september 27 , 1992 ) was a canadian university professor , diplomat , and civil servant . he was the canadian ambassador to mexico from 1944 to 1947 , and the commissioner of the northwest territories from january 14 , 1947 to september 15 , 1950 . this is list of archives in algeria . the umoja party was a far-left political party in the district of columbia . the origins of society — the evolutionary emergence of distinctively human social organization — is an important topic within evolutionary biology , anthropology , prehistory and palaeolithic archaeology . while little is known for certain , debates since hobbes and rousseau have returned again and again to the philosophical , moral and evolutionary questions posed . on 28 january 1964 , an unarmed t-39 sabreliner aircraft of the united states air force ( usaf ) was shot down while on a training mission over erfurt , east germany , by a mig-19 jet fighter of the soviet air force . the occupants of the aircraft were lieutenant colonel gerald k . hannaford , captain donald grant millard , and captain john f . lorraine . all three died , becoming direct casualties of the cold war in europe . john c . depp , ii v . amber laura heard was a trial held in fairfax county , virginia , from april 11 to june 1 , 2022 , that ruled on allegations of defamation between formerly married american actors johnny depp and amber heard . depp , as plaintiff , filed a complaint of defamation against defendant heard claiming $ 50 million in damages ; heard filed counterclaims against depp claiming $ 100 million in damages . depp and heard first met in 2009 and got married in february 2015 . heard filed for divorce in may 2016 , claiming that depp had abused her physically , which he denied . the couple's divorce was finalized in january 2017 . in the high court of justice in london , depp sued news group newspapers ltd for libel over an article published in the sun that claimed he had assaulted heard . in november 2020 , the presiding judge ruled against depp , stating , " [ t]he great majority of alleged assaults of ms . heard by mr . depp have been proved to the civil standard . " several legal experts suggested that depp had a smaller chance of winning in the us trial compared to the uk trial . in the virginia trial , depp's claims related to a december 2018 op-ed by heard , published in the washington post . depp claimed heard caused new damage to his reputation and career by stating that she had spoken up against " sexual violence " and " faced our culture's wrath " ; that " two years ago , [ she ] became a public figure representing domestic abuse " and " felt the full force of our culture’s wrath for women who speak out " ; and that she " had the rare vantage point of seeing , in real time , how institutions protect men accused of abuse " . heard's counterclaims included allegations that adam waldman , depp's former lawyer , had defamed her in statements published in the daily mail in 2020 . throughout the trial , depp's legal team sought to disprove heard's domestic abuse allegations and to demonstrate that she had been the instigator , rather than the victim , of intimate partner violence . heard's lawyers defended the op-ed , claiming it to be factual and protected by the first amendment . the jury ruled that heard's op-ed references to " sexual violence " and " domestic abuse " were false and defamed depp with actual malice . it awarded depp $ 10 million in compensatory damages and $ 5 million in punitive damages from heard , although the court reduced the punitive damages to $ 350,000 due to a limit imposed by virginia state law . it also ruled that depp had defamed heard through waldman , who had falsely alleged that heard and her friends " roughed up " depp's penthouse as part of an " ambush , a hoax " . it awarded heard $ 2 million in compensatory damages and $ 0 in punitive damages from depp . separately , the jury ruled that waldman's other allegations of heard's " sexual violence hoax " and " abuse hoax " against depp had not been proven defamatory . after the trial ended , heard put forth motions to set aside the verdict , but was unsuccessful . then , both depp and heard appealed against the respective verdicts . in december 2022 , both parties reached a settlement and dropped their appeals , with depp's lawyers benjamin chew and camille vasquez stating that depp would receive $ 1 million from heard . the livestreamed trial attracted large numbers of viewers and considerable social media response , most of which was sympathetic to depp and critical of heard . the trial renewed debates around topics relating to domestic violence , the # metoo movement , and women's rights , although some commentators were skeptical of the trial's long-term implications . the creighton lecture is an annual lecture delivered at king's college , london on a topic in history . the series , which memorializes historian and prelate mandell creighton , began in 1907 with a grant of £650 , half of which was donated by his widow , louise creighton . the world monuments watch is a flagship advocacy program of the new york–based private non-profit organization world monuments fund ( wmf ) and american express to call upon every government in the world , preservation organizations , and other groups and individuals to nominate sites and monuments that are particularly endangered . at the same time , the nominators commit themselves to participate in a carefully planned preservation project .