christianfilmdatabase.com , llc ( cfdb ) was an online database of christian films and their associated information . it was designed to be a christian version of the internet movie database . a purity ball is a formal dance event typically practiced by some conservative christian groups in the united states . the events are attended by fathers and their teenage daughters in order to promote virginity until marriage . typically , daughters who attend a purity ball make a virginity pledge to remain sexually abstinent until marriage . fathers who attend a purity ball make a promise to protect their young daughters ' " purity of mind , body , and soul . " the balls are considered a part of purity culture . proponents of these events believe that they encourage close and deeply affectionate relationships between fathers and daughters , thereby avoiding the premarital sexual activity that allegedly results when young women seek love through relationships with young men . critics of the balls argue that they encourage and engrave dysfunctional expectations in the minds of the young women , making them vulnerable to believing their only value is as property , and teaching them that they must subjugate their own mental , physical , and emotional well-being to the needs of potentially or actually abusive partners . the menaion ( greek : μηναῖον ; slavonic : минїѧ , miniya , " of the month " ) is the liturgical book used by the eastern orthodox church containing the propers for fixed dates of the calendar year , i.e . entities not dependent on the date of easter . the menaion is the largest volume of the propers for the byzantine rite and is used at nearly all the daily services . in social theory , detraditionalization refers to the erosion of tradition in religion ( secularization , agnosticism , religious disaffiliation ) and society in postmodernism . subscribing individuals in traditional societies believe in established , timeless , authoritative orders and values , above the individual , and timeless attainable goals . such beliefs may manifest as specific behavior . factors that contribute to loss of tradition are endorsement of individual choice and responsibility or the " sacred " ( in émile durkheim's sense of the term ) individual itself in democratic societies , and the revolution in communications . among the theorists who believe that society is moving from a modernity that has been largely traditional to a post-traditional time is anthony giddens , baron giddens . philosophy of religion is " the philosophical examination of the central themes and concepts involved in religious traditions " . philosophical discussions on such topics date from ancient times , and appear in the earliest known texts concerning philosophy . the field involves many other branches of philosophy , including metaphysics , epistemology , logic , ethics , aesthetics , philosophy of language , and philosophy of science . the philosophy of religion differs from religious philosophy in that it seeks to discuss questions regarding the nature of religion as a whole , rather than examining the problems brought forth by a particular belief-system . the philosophy of religion differs from theology in that it aims to examine religious concepts from an objective philosophical perspective rather than from the perspective of a specific religious tradition . the philosophy of religion also differs from religious studies in that it seeks to evaluate the truth of religious worldviews . it can be carried out dispassionately by those who identify as believers or non-believers . xrôshtag and padvâxtag ( xrōštag and padvāxtag ) are a pair of manichaean divinities , always depicted together , who serve as the personifications of the words " call " and " answer " . the call is uttered from above by the " living spirit " , and is answered from below by the man who wishes to be saved . williamsburg is a neighborhood in the new york city borough of brooklyn , bordered by greenpoint to the north ; bedford–stuyvesant to the south ; bushwick and east williamsburg to the east ; and the east river to the west . it was an independent city until 1855 , when it was annexed by brooklyn ; at that time , the spelling was changed from williamsburgh ( with an " h " ) to williamsburg . williamsburg , especially near the waterfront , was a vital industrial district until the mid-20th century . as many of the jobs were outsourced beginning in the 1970s , the area endured a period of economic contraction which did not begin to turn around until activist groups began to address housing , infrastructure , and youth education issues in the late 20th century . an ecosocial arts movement emerged alongside the activists in the late 1980s , often referred to as the brooklyn immersionists . the community-based scene cultivated a web of activity in the streets , rooftops and large warehouses , and attracted both the national and international press . small , locally owned businesses began to return to the neighborhood during this expansion of creative urbanism in the 1990s . in the 21st century , the city provided zoning changes and tax abatements to corporate developers which shifted the area from a creative , slow growth revival to an economy that was dominated by high rises and chain stores . despite the rise in the cost of living that followed , and the loss of the original creative community that had rejuvenated the district , a new contemporary art scene and vibrant nightlife emerged that catered to new residents . however , the intensity and innovations of the immersionist era in williamsburg has continued to project the district's image internationally as a " little berlin " . during the early 2000s , the neighborhood became a center for indie rock and electroclash . numerous ethnic groups still inhabit enclaves within the neighborhood , including italians , jews , hispanics , poles , puerto ricans , and dominicans . williamsburg is part of brooklyn community district 1 , and its primary zip codes are 11206 , 11211 and 11249 . it is patrolled by the 90th and 94th precincts of the new york city police department . politically , it is represented by the new york city council's 33rd district , which represents the western and southern parts of the neighborhood , and the 34th district , which represents the eastern part . as of the 2020 united states census , the neighborhood's population is 151,308 . the genesis prize ( hebrew : פרס בראשית ) is a $ 1 million annual prize awarded to jewish people who have achieved significant professional success , in recognition of their accomplishments , contributions to humanity , and commitment to jewish values . the prize was founded in 2012 with a $ 100 million endowment from five russian businessmen : mikhail fridman , pyotr aven , german khan , stan polovets , and alexander knaster . the prize was established under the administration of the genesis prize foundation , in partnership with the israeli prime minister's office and the jewish agency for israel . it has been referred to as the " jewish nobel prize " , causing some commentators to question the need for a " jewish " nobel prize . in 2018 , prize winner natalie portman declined to attend the prize ceremony because israel's prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , was set to give a speech at the ceremony . in 2019 robert kraft's award was also questioned because of his legal troubles . in 2021 , rabbi lord jonathan sacks was awarded a posthumous genesis lifetime achievement award , presented to his widow by the president of israel , isaac herzog . thus far , all laureates have opted to give the $ 1 million prize money to philanthropic causes of their choice . secularity , also the secular or secularness ( from latin saeculum , ' worldly ' or ' of a generation ' ) , is the state of being unrelated or neutral in regards to religion . the origins of secularity can be traced to the bible itself . the concept was fleshed out through christian history into the modern era . in the middle ages , there were even secular clergy . furthermore , secular and religious entities were not separated in the medieval period , but coexisted and interacted naturally . the word secular has a meaning very similar to profane as used in a religious context . today , anything that is not directly connected with religion may be considered secular , in other words , neutral to religion . secularity does not mean ' anti-religious ' , but ' unrelated to religion ' . many activities in religious bodies are secular , and though there are multiple types of secularity or secularization , most do not lead to irreligiosity . linguistically , a process by which anything becomes secular is named secularization , though the term is mainly reserved for the secularization of society ; and any concept or ideology promoting the secular may be termed secularism , a term generally applied to the ideology dictating no religious influence on the public sphere . scholars recognize that secularity is structured by protestant models of christianity , shares a parallel language to religion , and intensifies protestant features such as iconoclasm , skepticism towards rituals , and emphasizes beliefs . in doing so , secularism perpetuates christian traits under a different name . most cultures around the world do not have tension or dichotomous views of religion and secularity . since religion and secular are both western concepts that were formed under the influence of christian theology , other cultures do not necessarily have words or concepts that resemble or are equivalent to them . bahrot caves , locally known as barad , near dahanu , maharashtra are the only parsi/zoroastrian cave temple in india . bahrot caves is located 25 km south of sanjan , gujarat and are situated at a small distance of 8 km away from the village of bordi also nearly 9 km from nh48 from talasari . this mountain range originally belonged to tribal people of the village which they used for collecting wood , karvi ( which were used too make mudwall ) later they were unused buddhist caves which were excavated by buddhist monks . zoroastrians hid for 13 years in these mountains after an invasion of their settlement at sanjan by alaf khan , a general of muhammad bin tughluq in 1393 ce . the ‘iranshah flame’ was also moved to bahrot during this period ( 1393–1405 ce ) . even today , this holy fire is burning , now housed in a temple in udvada , see iranshah atash behram and it is given the most eminent grade of devoted fire in the world . bahrot caves has been declared a heritage site and is a protected monument under the archaeological survey of india ( asi ) .