transformative arts is the use of artistic activities , such as story-telling , painting , sculpture and music-making , to precipitate constructive individual and social change . the individual changes effected through transformative arts are commonly cognitive and emotional . this results from the way participation in a creative process and pursuit of an artistic practice can promote a critical re-evaluation of previously held beliefs , accompanied by unfamiliar feelings , which alters perception of the world , oneself , and others . the social changes effected through transformative arts occurs when this altered perception manifests in new ways of interacting with others . although engagement in artistic activities has been integral to the means by which individuals and communities have sought personal comfort , self-reflection , and group cohesion for thousands of years , the origin of transformative arts as a modern formal concept is commonly attributed to the work of john dewey . dewey espoused four main ideas around which transformative arts pivot . firstly , art is not an object but an experience , in which one or more persons participate . secondly , every individual is potentially an artist by way of his or her capacity to participate in this experience , through any artistic activity . thirdly , such participation inevitably precipitates some kind of transformative change to how the participants think , feel , and behave . fourthly , art is therefore both psychological and social , transforming not only individual intrapersonal processes , but also interpersonal relationships . accordingly , transformative arts are facilitated by artists with the psychological purpose of promoting individual introspection , and with the social purpose of promoting inclusion , reciprocity , and justice . a setting ( or backdrop ) is the time and geographic location within a narrative , either non-fiction or fiction . it is a literary element . the setting initiates the main backdrop and mood for a story . the setting can be referred to as story world or milieu to include a context ( especially society ) beyond the immediate surroundings of the story . elements of setting may include culture , historical period , geography , and hour . along with the plot , character , theme , and style , setting is considered one of the fundamental components of fiction . the atelier lacourière-frélaut was a printer specializing in fine printmaking in paris . in the 1930s the atelier produced prints for pablo picasso and henri matisse . it was founded by roger lacourière ( 1892–1966 ) in 1929 . the establishment was taken over by jacques frélaut when lacourière retired in 1957 . in 1979 the musée d'art moderne de paris held the 50th anniversary retrospective " l'atelier lacourière-frélaut ou 50 ans de gravures et d'impressions en taille-douce 1929-1979 " . the atelier closed in 2008 . =  = references =  = dematerialization of the art object is an idea in conceptual art defined as the expressive physical manifestations in which the idea is paramount and the material form is secondary . in " six years : the dematerialization of the art object " lucy l . lippard characterizes the period of 1966 to 1972 as one in which the art object was dematerialised through the new artistic practices of conceptual art . =  = references =  = gifted art ( or free art ) is any form or piece of art that is given freely , whether to a city , a group of people , a community or an individual . it refers to any art that is distributed at no direct cost . it is a form of conceptual art . it comes from a belief that art should be available for all people to enjoy , whether rich or poor , university graduate or junior high dropout . since gifted art is an expressive form of art -  - an idea , it encompasses virtually all forms of art : movies , literature , music recordings , sculpture , painting , graffiti , digital art , street performances , performance art , sticker art , comics , coffeehouse poetry and internet-distributed art etc . dematerialization of the art object is an idea in conceptual art defined as the expressive physical manifestations in which the idea is paramount and the material form is secondary . in " six years : the dematerialization of the art object " lucy l . lippard characterizes the period of 1966 to 1972 as one in which the art object was dematerialised through the new artistic practices of conceptual art . =  = references =  = arts criticism is the process of describing , analyzing , interpreting , and judging works of art . the disciplines of arts criticism can be defined by the object being considered rather than the methodology ( through analysis of its philosophy ) : buildings ( architecture criticism ) , paintings ( visual art criticism ) , performances ( dance criticism , theatre criticism ) , music ( music journalism ) , visual media ( film criticism , television criticism ) , or literary texts ( literary criticism ) . criticism of the arts can be broadly divided into two types . there is academic criticism such as that found in scholarly works and specialist journals , then there is criticism of a more journalistic nature ( often called ' a review ' ) which is seen by a wider public through newspapers , television and radio . the academic criticism will be of a more vigorous and analytical nature than the journalistic , the journalistic may even focus on entertaining the reader at the expense of detail about the art under discussion . a silent disco or silent rave is an event where people dance to music listened to on wireless headphones . rather than using a speaker system , music is broadcast via a radio transmitter with the signal being picked up by wireless headphone receivers worn by the participants . those without the headphones hear no music . in the earliest days of silent discos , before 2005 , music was transmitted on a single channel . later a second and a third channel were introduced , transmitting different music . silent discos are popular at music festivals as they allow dancing to continue past noise curfews . similar events are " mobile clubbing " gatherings , where a group of people dance to the music on their personal music players . a series of silent discos taking place in cathedrals and historic buildings around the uk and europe was organised in 2024 . the scuola del teatro stabile di torino , located in turin , italy , is a performing arts academy which was founded in 1955 by italian director luca ronconi . teatro stabile di torino ( union of the theatres of europe ) is recognized as one of the most prestigious performing arts academies around europe . since its early foundation , the academy has distinguished itself as a national reference center for traditional theatrical heritage , experimentation and research . with the advent of arts and music reform , the academy became part of the sector level higher education in art and music ( afam ) , established by law no . 508 of 21 december 1999 . the academic year begins in october and ends in june . the coursework is intensive , requiring motivation and commitment . it includes lessons , exercises and testing , ten hours per day , six days a week . the two main courses , directing and acting , both approach the interpretation of dramatic text using theoretical , critical , technical and artistic analysis . the prestige of the academy has been firmly established through the participation of important figures in the dramatic arts , who contribute to lesson programs , seminars , special courses and meetings . this allows the film and theater students to make distinctions between the teaching and professional work . academic activities are presented to the public with the production of approximately two events per year , produced with the students , supported and directed by renowned professionals , including technical staff in set , costume , and lighting design . the academy provides training in dramatic theater and the italian cinema , and is structured in three stages . after completing the three-year program , students are granted a diploma equivalent to a university degree . repurposing is the process by which an object with one use value is transformed or redeployed as an object with an alternative use value .