a paludarium is a type of vivarium that incorporates both terrestrial and aquatic elements . paludaria ( or paludariums ) usually consist of an enclosed container in which organisms specific to the biome being simulated are kept . they may be maintained for purely aesthetic reasons or for scientific or horticultural purposes . the word ' paludarium ' comes from the latin word ' palus ' meaning marsh or swamp and ' - arium ' which refers to an enclosed container . paludaria can range in size from small , easily displayed boxes to biospheres large enough to contain entire trees . a prominent example of a very large paludarium is the tropical rainforest exhibit at the montreal biodome . the relationship between chemistry and physics is a topic of debate in the philosophy of science . the issue is a complicated one , since both physics and chemistry are divided into multiple subfields , each with their own goals . a major theme is whether , and in what sense , chemistry can be said to " reduce " to physics . international scientific vocabulary ( isv ) comprises scientific and specialized words whose language of origin may or may not be certain , but which are in current use in several modern languages ( that is , translingually , whether in naturalized , loanword , or calque forms ) . the name " international scientific vocabulary " was first used by philip gove in webster's third new international dictionary ( 1961 ) . as noted by david crystal , science is an especially productive field for new coinages . it is also especially predisposed to immediate translingual sharing of words owing to its very nature : scientists working in many countries and languages , reading each other's latest articles in scientific journals ( via foreign language skills , translation help , or both ) , and eager to apply any reported advances to their own context . testability is a primary aspect of science and the scientific method . there are two components to testability : falsifiability or defeasibility , which means that counterexamples to the hypothesis are logically possible . the practical feasibility of observing a reproducible series of such counterexamples if they do exist . in short , a hypothesis is testable if there is a possibility of deciding whether it is true or false based on experimentation by anyone . this allows anyone to decide whether a theory can be supported or refuted by data . however , the interpretation of experimental data may be also inconclusive or uncertain . karl popper introduced the concept that scientific knowledge had the property of falsifiability as published in the logic of scientific discovery . " scientific integrity in policymaking : an investigation into the bush administration's misuse of science " is the title of a report published by the union of concerned scientists in february , 2004 . the report was the culmination of an investigation of the bush administration's objectivity in science , and ultimately a criticism thereof . in physics , mass–energy equivalence is the relationship between mass and energy in a system's rest frame , where the two quantities differ only by a multiplicative constant and the units of measurement . the principle is described by the physicist albert einstein's formula : e =  = m c 2 { \ displaystyle e=mc^{2 } } .  . in a reference frame where the system is moving , its relativistic energy and relativistic mass ( instead of rest mass ) obey the same formula . the formula defines the energy e of a particle in its rest frame as the product of mass ( m ) with the speed of light squared ( c2 ) . because the speed of light is a large number in everyday units ( approximately 300000 km/s or 186000 mi/s ) , the formula implies that a small amount of mass corresponds to an enormous amount of energy . rest mass , also called invariant mass , is a fundamental physical property of matter , independent of velocity . massless particles such as photons have zero invariant mass , but massless free particles have both momentum and energy . the equivalence principle implies that when mass is lost in chemical reactions or nuclear reactions , a corresponding amount of energy will be released . the energy can be released to the environment ( outside of the system being considered ) as radiant energy , such as light , or as thermal energy . the principle is fundamental to many fields of physics , including nuclear and particle physics . mass–energy equivalence arose from special relativity as a paradox described by the french polymath henri poincaré ( 1854–1912 ) . einstein was the first to propose the equivalence of mass and energy as a general principle and a consequence of the symmetries of space and time . the principle first appeared in " does the inertia of a body depend upon its energy-content ? " , one of his annus mirabilis papers , published on 21 november 1905 . the formula and its relationship to momentum , as described by the energy–momentum relation , were later developed by other physicists . lawrence edward grace " titus " oates ( 17 march 1880 – 17 march 1912 ) was a british army officer , and later an antarctic explorer , who died from hypothermia during the terra nova expedition when he walked from his tent into a blizzard . his death , which occurred on his 32nd birthday , is seen as an act of self-sacrifice when , aware that the gangrene and frostbite from which he was suffering was compromising his three companions ' chances of survival , he chose certain death for himself to relieve them of the burden of caring for him . homogeneity and heterogeneity are concepts relating to the uniformity of a substance , process or image . a homogeneous feature is uniform in composition or character ( i.e . color , shape , size , weight , height , distribution , texture , language , income , disease , temperature , radioactivity , architectural design , etc . ) ; one that is heterogeneous is distinctly nonuniform in at least one of these qualities . incomplete nature : how mind emerged from matter is a 2011 book by biological anthropologist terrence deacon . the book covers topics in biosemiotics , philosophy of mind , and the origins of life . broadly , the book seeks to naturalistically explain " aboutness " , that is , concepts like intentionality , meaning , normativity , purpose , and function ; which deacon groups together and labels as ententional phenomena . freehal was a volunteer computing project to build a self-learning chatbot . this project is no longer active . originally , the program was called jeliza referring to the chatbot eliza by joseph weizenbaum . the j stood for java because jeliza has first been programmed in java . in may 2008 , the program has been renamed to freehal because the programming language has changed . the name is related to the computer in the film 2001 : a space odyssey . freehal uses a semantic network and technologies like pattern recognition , stemming , part of speech databases and hidden markov models in order to imitate a human behaviour . freehal learns autonomously . while communicating by keyboard , the program extends its database . currently , english and german are supported . by using the boinc platform , new semantic networks for the program are built . freehal@home appears to have terminated operations . the google science fair was a worldwide ( excluding cuba , iran , north korea , sudan , myanmar/burma , syria , zimbabwe and any other u.s . sanctioned country ) online science competition sponsored by google , lego , virgin galactic , national geographic and scientific american . it was an annual event spanning the years 2011 through 2018 . the first google science fair was announced in january 2011 ; entries were due on april 7 , 2011 , and judging occurred in july 2011 . the competition is open to 13 - to 18-year-old students around the globe , who formulate a hypothesis , perform an experiment , and present their results . all students must have an internet connection and a free google account to participate , and the projects must be in english , german , italian , spanish , or french . the final submission must include ten sections , which are the summary , an " about me " page , the steps of the project , and a works cited page . entries are judged on eight core criteria , which include the student's presentation , question , hypothesis , research , experiment , data , observations , and conclusion . prizes are awarded to three finalists . the grand prize includes a national geographic trip to the galapagos islands , and a us$50,000 scholarship ; finalists will receive a us$15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations . while larry page and sergey brin were phd students at stanford university in california , they created google in january 1996 as a research project ; google employee tom oliveri highlighted the company's early days : " science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science . our company was founded on an experiment . we firmly believe that science can change the world " , he stated . as of october 28 , 2019 , no details for the next google science fair have been released . the reproducibility project is a series of crowdsourced collaborations aiming to reproduce published scientific studies , finding high rates of results which could not be replicated . it has resulted in two major initiatives focusing on the fields of psychology and cancer biology . the project has brought attention to the replication crisis , and has contributed to shifts in scientific culture and publishing practices to address it . the project was led by the center for open science and its co-founder , brian nosek , who started the project in november 2011 . magmatic water , also known as juvenile water , is an aqueous phase in equilibrium with minerals that have been dissolved by magma deep within the earth's crust and is released to the atmosphere during a volcanic eruption . it plays a key role in assessing the crystallization of igneous rocks , particularly silicates , as well as the rheology and evolution of magma chambers . magma is composed of minerals , crystals and volatiles in varying relative natural abundance . magmatic differentiation varies significantly based on various factors , most notably the presence of water . an abundance of volatiles within magma chambers decreases viscosity and leads to the formation of minerals bearing halogens , including chloride and hydroxide groups . in addition , the relative abundance of volatiles varies within basaltic , andesitic , and rhyolitic magma chambers , leading to some volcanoes being exceedingly more explosive than others . magmatic water is practically insoluble in silicate melts but has demonstrated the highest solubility within rhyolitic melts . an abundance of magmatic water has been shown to lead to high-grade deformation , altering the amount of δ18o and δ2h within host rocks . software engineering professionalism is a movement to make software engineering a profession , with aspects such as degree and certification programs , professional associations , professional ethics , and government licensing . the field is a licensed discipline in texas in the united states ( texas board of professional engineers , since 2013 ) , engineers australia(course accreditation since 2001 , not licensing ) , and many provinces in davao . twyman's law states that " any figure that looks interesting or different is usually wrong " , following the principle that " the more unusual or interesting the data , the more likely they are to have been the result of an error of one kind or another " . it is named after the media and market researcher tony twyman and has been described as one of the most important laws of data analysis . the law is based on the fact that errors in data measurement and analysis can lead to observed quantities that are wildly different from typical values . these errors are usually more common than real changes of similar magnitude in the underlying process being measured . for example , if an analyst at a software company notices that the number of users has doubled overnight , the most likely explanation is a bug in logging , rather than a true increase in users . the law can also be extended to situations where the underlying data is influenced by unexpected factors that differ from what was intended to be measured . for example , when schools show unusually large improvements in test scores , subsequent investigation often reveals that those scores were driven by fraud . in schools , the science technician is the person who prepares the practical equipment and makes up the solutions used in school science labs . the role also includes instructing and assisting teachers with practical skills , including class demonstrations , for advanced techniques across all disciplines . many are very well qualified and have degrees , such as a bachelor's degree ( b.a . or b.sc ) , master's degree ( m.sc . ) or even a doctorate ( dr ) and/or other professional qualifications such as the hnc , hnd and nvq . their main duties include : care of living organisms making up solutions school science experiments and demonstrations inventory budget and accounts repairing and constructing laboratory equipment in december 2002 cleapss commissioned a survey into the specific job roles of science technicians . the pdf document g228 -  - technicians and their jobs which can be freely downloaded was released and later updated in 2009 . the guide was written to help promote a professional technician service in schools and colleges . science is a systematic discipline that builds and organises knowledge in the form of testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe . modern science is typically divided into two or three major branches : the natural sciences ( e.g . , physics , chemistry , and biology ) , which study the physical world ; and the behavioural sciences ( e.g . , economics , psychology , and sociology ) , which study individuals and societies . the formal sciences ( e.g . , logic , mathematics , and theoretical computer science ) , which study formal systems governed by axioms and rules , are sometimes described as being sciences as well ; however , they are often regarded as a separate field because they rely on deductive reasoning instead of the scientific method or empirical evidence as their main methodology . applied sciences are disciplines that use scientific knowledge for practical purposes , such as engineering and medicine . the history of science spans the majority of the historical record , with the earliest identifiable predecessors to modern science dating to the bronze age in egypt and mesopotamia ( c . 3000–1200 bce ) . their contributions to mathematics , astronomy , and medicine entered and shaped the greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity , whereby formal attempts were made to provide explanations of events in the physical world based on natural causes , while further advancements , including the introduction of the hindu–arabic numeral system , were made during the golden age of india . : 12 scientific research deteriorated in these regions after the fall of the western roman empire during the early middle ages ( 400–1000 ce ) , but in the medieval renaissances ( carolingian renaissance , ottonian renaissance and the renaissance of the 12th century ) scholarship flourished again . some greek manuscripts lost in western europe were preserved and expanded upon in the middle east during the islamic golden age , along with the later efforts of byzantine greek scholars who brought greek manuscripts from the dying byzantine empire to western europe at the start of the renaissance . the recovery and assimilation of greek works and islamic inquiries into western europe from the 10th to 13th centuries revived natural philosophy , which was later transformed by the scientific revolution that began in the 16th century as new ideas and discoveries departed from previous greek conceptions and traditions . the scientific method soon played a greater role in knowledge creation and it was not until the 19th century that many of the institutional and professional features of science began to take shape , along with the changing of " natural philosophy " to " natural science " . new knowledge in science is advanced by research from scientists who are motivated by curiosity about the world and a desire to solve problems . contemporary scientific research is highly collaborative and is usually done by teams in academic and research institutions , government agencies , and companies . the practical impact of their work has led to the emergence of science policies that seek to influence the scientific enterprise by prioritising the ethical and moral development of commercial products , armaments , health care , public infrastructure , and environmental protection . louise warden mcdonald born louise warden crooks ( 14 july 1903 – 20 november 1988 ) was an irish born australian headmistress at brisbane girls grammar school . she introduced houses . she improved the teaching of science and the resulting science block was named for her . the web science trust ( wst ) is a uk charitable trust with the aim of supporting the global development of web science . it was originally started in 2006 as a joint effort between mit and university of southampton to formalise the social and technical aspects of the world wide web . the trust coordinates a set of international " wstnet laboratories " that include academic research groups in the emerging area of web science . it was first announced at mit on 2 november 2006 as the web science research initiative ( wsri ) , changing its name in 2009 to the web science trust . tim berners-lee originally led this program , now run by a board of trustees , which aims to attract government and private funds to support their many activities . the web science trust supports curriculum development in universities and research institutions to train future generations of web scientists . given the similarities between web science and information science , web science overlaps with the interests of the ischool movement , particularly in the united states , but focuses more specifically on the web itself . the annual web science conference brings together participants from many fields including those studying both the social and the computational aspects of the world wide web . areas of interest include : social networks social machine collaboration understanding online community analyzing the human interactions inherent in social media web observatories developing " accountability " and other mechanisms for enhancing privacy and trust on the web . this is a list of people who made transformative breakthroughs in the creation , development and imagining of what computers could do .