shirdi (  ( ; also known as sainagar ) is a town and pilgrimage site in the indian state of maharashtra . shirdi is located in the rahata taluka of ahmednagar district . it is accessible via the ahmednagar–malegaon state highway no.10 , approximately 83 km ( 52 mi ) from ahmednagar and 15 km ( 9.3 mi ) from kopargaon . it is located 185 km ( 115 mi ) east of the ahmednagar–manmad road . shri saibaba sansthan trust is located in shirdi . peace mala ( the peace mala project for global citizenship and world peace ) , is a british registered charity based in morriston in swansea , wales dedicated to fostering inter-cultural , inter-faith tolerance , and promoting international humans rights and dignity . according to peace mala's memorandum , the project aims to " advance the education of the public in global citizenship " and to " promote human rights as set out in the universal declaration of human rights and subsequent united nations conventions and declarations " . peace mala is an educational project which provides resources to schools and community groups . the symbolic double rainbow peace mala bracelet is one such resource , either provided pre-made , or through kits encouraging to schools and groups to create their own whilst contemplating the various world faiths and lessons represented by each bead . peace mala focuses on the golden rule : " treat others as you would wish them to treat you " . rajiv mehrotra is an indian writer , television producer-director , documentary film maker , a personal student of the dalai lama for whom he manages as trustee/secretary the foundation for universal responsibility established with the nobel peace prize . he is best known as the former acclaimed host of one of india's longest running talk shows on public television , " in conversation " , that has been through several incarnations over more than twenty years , aired on the india's national broadcaster , doordarshan news channel , saturdays at 9.30 pm . as a documentary film maker , producer , and commissioning editor his 650 films have won 50 national awards from the president of india and more than 285 national and international awards . they have had more than 1500 film festival screenings around the world from berlin , chicago , and rotterdam to mumbai , qatar , and yamagata . three of his documentary films have been archived by the motion picture academy of america , well known for presenting the oscars . he has authored nine books that have been published in 50 editions and languages . they are primarily on spirituality , most notably conversations with the dalai lama , thakur – a biography of sri ramakrishna and mind of the guru . he was a student of the late swami ranganathananda , president of the ramakrishna mission and of the iconic yoga teacher bks iyengar . he serves as the founder and managing trustee of public service broadcasting trust ( www.psbt.org ) and till recently chairman of the media foundation ( www.thehoot.org ) rajiv mehrotra has twice addressed plenary sessions of the world economic forum who elected him a global leader for tomorrow . he was a judge of the templeton prize , typically presented by prince philip in a ceremony at buckingham palace . the monetary value of the prize is adjusted so that it exceeds that of the nobel prizes , as templeton felt " spirituality was ignored " in the nobel prizes . he was educated at la martiniere , calcutta ; st stephen's college , delhi and the universities of oxford &  & columbia . wild talents , published in 1932 , is the fourth and final non-fiction book by the author charles fort , known for his writing on the paranormal . the american theological library association ( atla ) is a nonprofit , 501(c)(3 ) , professional association , headquartered in chicago , illinois , united states . atla's member libraries and librarians provide resources for scholarly research to tens of thousands of students , faculty , staff , and administrators . the association supports the membership with services and products , including an annual conference , members-only publications and discounts , and professional development opportunities . the history of taoism stretches throughout chinese history . originating in prehistoric china , it has exerted a powerful influence over chinese culture throughout the ages . taoism evolved in response to changing times , with its doctrine and associated practices being revised and refined . the acceptance of taoism by the ruling class has waxed and waned , alternately enjoying periods of favor and rejection . most recently , taoism has emerged from a period of suppression and is undergoing a revival in china . laozi ( lao tzu ) is traditionally regarded as the founder of the taoist religion and is closely associated in this context with " original " , or " primordial " , taoism . whether he actually existed is disputed , and the work attributed to him – the daodejing ( tao te ching ) – is dated between the 8th and 3rd century bc . the yellow emperor , huangdi ( 2697–2597 bce ) is also often associated with the origin of the tao ; his works are believed to have greatly influenced laozi . it is possible taoism existed before laozi , as he refers to the " tao masters of antiquity " in the 15th chapter of the daodejing ; however it is also possible he was referring to masters—mythical or historical—of the wisdom to which taoism points , rather than masters of taoism as an already established religion . sinologist isabelle robinet identifies four components in the emergence of taoism : philosophical taoism , i.e . the daodejing and zhuangzi techniques for achieving ecstasy practices for achieving longevity or immortality exorcism some elements of taoism may be traced to prehistoric folk religions in china that later coalesced into a taoist tradition . in particular , many taoist practices drew from the warring-states-era phenomena of the wu ( shaman ) ( connected to the " shamanism " of southern china ) and the fangshi ( which probably derived from the " archivist-soothsayers of antiquity , one of whom supposedly was laozi himself " ) , even though later taoists insisted that this was not the case . both terms were used to designate individuals dedicated to " .  . . magic , medicine , divination , . . . methods of longevity and to ecstatic wanderings " as well as exorcism ; in the case of the wu , " shamans " or " sorcerers " is often used as a translation . the fangshi were philosophically close to the school of yin-yang , and relied much on astrological and calendrical speculations in their divinatory activities . muscular islam is a sometimes used term to describe the push for physical fitness amongst muslims . mormons are a religious and cultural group related to mormonism , the principal branch of the latter day saint movement started by joseph smith in upstate new york during the 1820s . after smith's death in 1844 , the movement split into several groups following different leaders ; the majority followed brigham young , while smaller groups followed joseph smith iii , sidney rigdon , and james strang . most of these smaller groups eventually merged into the community of christ , and the term mormon typically refers to members of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints ( lds church ) , as today , this branch is far larger than all the others combined . people who identify as mormons may also be independently religious , secular , and non-practicing or belong to other denominations . since 2018 , the lds church has emphasized a desire for its members be referred to as " members of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints " , or more simply as " latter-day saints " . mormons have developed a strong sense of community that stems from their doctrine and history . one of the central doctrinal issues that defined mormonism in the 19th century was the practice of plural marriage , a form of religious polygamy . from 1852 until 1904 , when the lds church banned the practice , many mormons who had followed brigham young to the utah territory openly practiced polygamy . mormons dedicate significant time and resources to serving in their churches . a prominent practice among young and retired members of the lds church is to serve a full-time proselytizing mission . mormons have a health code that eschews alcoholic beverages , tobacco , tea , coffee , and addictive substances . they tend to be very family-oriented and have strong connections across generations and with extended family , reflecting their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death . they also have a strict law of chastity , requiring abstention from sexual relations outside heterosexual marriage and fidelity within marriage . mormons self-identify as christian , but some non-mormons consider mormons non-christian because some of their beliefs differ from those of nicene christianity . mormons believe that christ's church was restored through joseph smith and is guided by living prophets and apostles . mormons believe in the bible and other books of scripture , such as the book of mormon . they have a unique view of cosmology and believe that all people are literal spirit children of god . mormons believe that returning to god requires following the example of jesus christ and accepting his atonement through repentance and ordinances such as baptism . during the 19th century , mormon converts tended to gather in a central geographic location , a trend that reversed somewhat in the 1920s and 1930s . the center of mormon cultural influence is in utah , and north america has more mormons than any other continent , although about 60 % of mormons live outside the united states . as of december 31 , 2021 , the lds church reported a membership of 16,805,400 . the dabestan-e mazaheb ( persian : دبستان مذاهب ) " school of religions " is a persian language work that examines and compares abrahamic , dharmic and other religions of the mid-17th century south asia and the middle east . additionally , it has information on various hellenic philosophical traditions , such as aristotelianism and neoplatonism . the work , composed in the mid-17th century , is of uncertain authorship . the text's title is also transliterated as dabistān-i mazāhib , dabistan-e madahib , or dabestan-e madaheb . the text is best known for its dedication of an entire chapter to din-i ilahi , the syncretic religion propounded by the mughal emperor jalāl ud-dīn muḥammad akbar after 1581 and is possibly the most reliable account of the ibādat khāna discussions that led up to this . it is also one of the first works in history to make any mention of sikhism . alexander bengt magnus bard ( born 17 march 1961 ) is a swedish musician , author , lecturer , artist , songwriter , music producer , tv personality , religious and political activist , and one of the founders of the syntheist religious movement alongside his co-author jan söderqvist . bard is a member of music band army of lovers . paenitemini is a 1966 apostolic constitution by pope paul vi . in paenitemini paul changed the strictly regulated catholic fasting requirements . he recommended that fasting be appropriate to the local economic situation , and that all catholics voluntarily fast and abstain . he further recommended that fasting and abstinence be replaced with prayer and works of charity " in countries where the standard of living is lower " . jews were numerous and had significant roles throughout the history of the byzantine empire . yasukuni shrine ( 靖国神社 or 靖國神社 , yasukuni jinja , lit . ' peaceful country shrine ' ) is a shinto shrine located in chiyoda , tokyo . it was founded by emperor meiji in june 1869 and commemorates those who died in service of japan , from the boshin war of 1868–1869 , to the two sino-japanese wars , 1894–1895 and 1937–1945 respectively , and the first indochina war of 1946–1954 , including war criminals . the shrine's purpose has been expanded over the years to include those who died in the wars involving japan spanning from the entire meiji and taishō periods , and the earlier part of the shōwa period . the shrine lists the names , origins , birthdates and places of death of 2,466,532 men . among those are 1,066 convicted war criminals from the pacific war , twelve of whom were charged with class a crimes ( the planning , preparation , initiation , or waging of the war ) . eleven were convicted on those charges with the twelfth found not guilty on all such charges though he was found guilty of class b war crimes . the names of two more men charged with class a war crimes are on the list but one died during trial and one before trial so they were never convicted . this has led to many controversies surrounding the shrine . another memorial at the honden ( main hall ) building commemorates anyone who died on behalf of japan and so includes koreans and taiwanese who served japan at the time . the chinreisha ( " spirit pacifying shrine " ) building is a shrine built to inter the souls of all the people who died during world war ii , regardless of their nationality . it is located directly south of the yasukuni honden . japanese soldiers fought world war ii in the name of emperor shōwa , who visited the shrine 8 times between the end of the war and 1975 . however , he stopped visiting the shrine due to his displeasure over the enshrinement of top convicted japanese war criminals . his successors akihito and naruhito have never visited the shrine . pastoral counseling is a branch of counseling in which psychologically trained ministers , rabbis , priests , imams , and other persons provide therapy services . pastoral counselors often integrate modern psychological thought and method with traditional religious training in an effort to address psychospiritual issues in addition to the traditional spectrum of counseling services . the great commandment ( or greatest commandment ) is a name used in the new testament to describe the first of two commandments cited by jesus in matthew 22:35–40 , mark 12:28–34 , and in answer to him in luke 10:27a : . .  . . and one of them , a lawyer , asked him a question to test him . " teacher , which commandment in the law is the greatest ? " he [ jesus ] said to him , " ' you shall love the lord your god with all your heart , and with all your soul , and with all your mind . ' this is the greatest and first commandment . " most christian denominations consider these two commandments as , together , forming the core of the christian religion . swami satyabhakta ( hindi : स्वामी सत्यभक्त , born as darbarilal ; 10 november 1899 – 10 december 1998 ) was an indian scholar , philosopher , reformer and the founder of satya samaj . estonian neopaganism , or the estonian native faith , spans various contemporary revivals of the indigenous religion of the estonian people , adapted from their local myths and culture . major branches include taaraism ( estonian : taarausk literally " taara faith " ) , a monistic faith based on the god tharapita founded as a national religion in 1928 ; and maausk ( estonian : maausk , literally " land faith " ) , a much broader umbrella of " native faith " , encompassing grassroots movements devoted to the worship of local gods , nature worship , and earth religion . both movements are associated with the maavalla koda . a 2002 survey suggested 11 % of the population of estonia claimed having " the warmest feelings towards taaraism and maausk " among all religions . a 2021 survey found 3,860 self-declared adherents of maausk and 1,770 adherents of taarausk living in estonia . the summa theologiae or summa theologica ( transl . ' summary of theology ' ) , often referred to simply as the summa , is the best-known work of thomas aquinas ( 1225–1274 ) , a scholastic theologian and doctor of the church . it is a compendium of all of the main theological teachings of the catholic church , intended to be an instructional guide for theology students , including seminarians and the literate laity . presenting the reasoning for almost all points of christian theology in the west , topics of the summa follow the following cycle : god ; creation , man ; man's purpose ; christ ; the sacraments ; and back to god . although unfinished , it is " one of the classics of the history of philosophy and one of the most influential works of western literature " . it remains aquinas's " most perfect work , the fruit of his mature years , in which the thought of his whole life is condensed " . throughout the summa , aquinas cites christian , muslim , hebrew , and pagan sources , including , but not limited to : christian sacred scripture , aristotle , augustine of hippo , avicenna , averroes , al-ghazali , boethius , john of damascus , paul the apostle , pseudo-dionysius , maimonides , anselm of canterbury , plato , cicero , and john scotus eriugena . the summa is a more-structured and expanded version of aquinas's earlier summa contra gentiles , though the two were written for different purposes . the summa theologiae intended to explain the christian faith to beginning theology students , whereas the summa contra gentiles , to explain the christian faith and defend it in hostile situations , with arguments adapted to the intended circumstances of its use , each article refuting a certain belief or a specific heresy . aquinas conceived the summa specifically as a work suited to beginning students : it was while teaching at the santa sabina studium provinciale—the forerunner of the santa maria sopra minerva studium generale and college of saint thomas , which in the 20th century would become the pontifical university of saint thomas aquinas , angelicum—that aquinas began to compose the summa . he completed the prima pars ( ' first part ' ) in its entirety and circulated it in italy before departing to take up his second regency as professor at the university of paris ( 1269–1272 ) . not only has the summa theologiae been one of the main intellectual inspirations for thomistic philosophy , but it also had such a great influence on dante alighieri's divine comedy , that dante's epic poem has been called " the summa in verse " . even today , both in western and eastern catholic churches , and the mainline protestant denominations ( anglicanism , lutheranism , methodism , and reformed christianity ) , it is very common for the summa theologiae to be a major reference for those seeking ordination to the diaconate or priesthood , or for professed male or female religious life , or for laypersons studying philosophy and theology at the collegiate level . in social theory , detraditionalization refers to the erosion of tradition in religion ( secularization , agnosticism , religious disaffiliation ) and society in postmodernism . subscribing individuals in traditional societies believe in established , timeless , authoritative orders and values , above the individual , and timeless attainable goals . such beliefs may manifest as specific behavior . factors that contribute to loss of tradition are endorsement of individual choice and responsibility or the " sacred " ( in émile durkheim's sense of the term ) individual itself in democratic societies , and the revolution in communications . among the theorists who believe that society is moving from a modernity that has been largely traditional to a post-traditional time is anthony giddens , baron giddens . a religious reform ( from latin re - : " back , again " , and formare : " to form " ; i.e . put together : " to restore , reconstruct , rebuild " ) aims at the reform of religious teachings . it is not to be confused with an organizational reform of a religious community , though mostly this is a consequence of a reform of religious teachings .