the daffodils family kakamega a category of fine art , graphic art covers a broad range of visual artistic expression , typically two-dimensional graphics ,  , i.e . produced on a flat surface , today normally paper or a screen on various electronic devices . the term usually refers to the arts that rely more on line , color or tone , especially drawing and the various forms of engraving ; it is sometimes understood to refer specifically to drawing and the various printmaking processes , such as line engraving , aquatint , drypoint , etching , mezzotint , monotype , lithography , and screen printing ( silk-screen , serigraphy ) . graphic art mostly includes calligraphy , photography , painting , typography , computer graphics , and bindery . it also encompasses drawn plans and layouts for interior and architectural designs . in museum parlance " works on paper " is a common term , covering the various types of traditional fine art graphic art . there is now a large sector of graphic designers working mostly on web design.
art describes a diverse range of cultural activity centered around works utilizing creative or imaginative talents , which are expected to evoke a worthwhile experience , generally through an expression of emotional power , conceptual ideas , beauty , and/or technical proficiency . there is no generally agreed definition of what constitutes art , and its interpretation has varied greatly throughout history and across cultures . in the western tradition , the three classical branches of visual art are painting , sculpture , and architecture . theatre , dance , and other performing arts , as well as literature , music , film and other media such as interactive media , are included in a broader definition of " the arts " . until the 17th century , art referred to any skill or mastery and was not differentiated from crafts or sciences . in modern usage after the 17th century , where aesthetic considerations are paramount , the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general , such as the decorative or applied arts . the nature of art and related concepts , such as creativity and interpretation , are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics . the resulting artworks are studied in the professional fields of art criticism and the history of art.
a metalsmith or simply smith is a craftsperson fashioning useful items ( for example , tools , kitchenware , tableware , jewelry , armor and weapons ) out of various metals . smithing is one of the oldest metalworking occupations . shaping metal with a hammer ( forging ) is the archetypical component of smithing . often the hammering is done while the metal is hot , having been heated in a forge . smithing can also involve the other aspects of metalworking , such as refining metals from their ores ( traditionally done by smelting ) , casting it into shapes ( founding ) , and filing to shape and size . the prevalence of metalworking in the culture of recent centuries has led smith and its equivalents in various languages to be a common occupational surname ( german schmidt or schmied , portuguese ferreiro , ferreira , french lefèvre , spanish herrero , italian fabbri , ferrari , ferrero , ukrainian koval etc . ) . as a suffix , - smith connotes a meaning of a specialized craftsperson—for example , wordsmith and tunesmith are nouns synonymous with writer or songwriter , respectively.
economics of the arts and literature or cultural economics ( used below for convenience ) is a branch of economics that studies the economics of creation , distribution , and the consumption of works of art , literature and similar creative and/or cultural products . for a long time , the concept of the " arts " were confined to visual arts ( e.g . , painting ) and performing arts ( music , theatre , dance ) in the anglo-saxon tradition . usage has widened since the beginning of the 1980s with the study of cultural industry ( cinema , television programs , book and periodical publishing and music publishing ) and the economy of cultural institutions ( museums , libraries , historic buildings ) . the field is coded as jel : z11 in the journal of economic literature classification system used for article searches.
the applied arts are all the arts that apply design and decoration to everyday and essentially practical objects in order to make them aesthetically pleasing . the term is used in distinction to the fine arts , which are those that produce objects with no practical use , whose only purpose is to be beautiful or stimulate the intellect in some way . in practice , the two often overlap . applied arts largely overlap with decorative arts , and the modern making of applied art is usually called design . examples of applied arts are : industrial design – mass-produced objects . sculpture – also counted as a fine art . architecture – also counted as a fine art . crafts – also counted as a fine art . ceramic art automotive design fashion design calligraphy interior design graphic design cartographic ( map ) design
art describes a diverse range of cultural activity centered around works utilizing creative or imaginative talents , which are expected to evoke a worthwhile experience , generally through an expression of emotional power , conceptual ideas , beauty , and/or technical proficiency . there is no generally agreed definition of what constitutes art , and its interpretation has varied greatly throughout history and across cultures . in the western tradition , the three classical branches of visual art are painting , sculpture , and architecture . theatre , dance , and other performing arts , as well as literature , music , film and other media such as interactive media , are included in a broader definition of " the arts " . until the 17th century , art referred to any skill or mastery and was not differentiated from crafts or sciences . in modern usage after the 17th century , where aesthetic considerations are paramount , the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general , such as the decorative or applied arts . the nature of art and related concepts , such as creativity and interpretation , are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics . the resulting artworks are studied in the professional fields of art criticism and the history of art.
the term context art ( german : kontextkunst ) was introduced through the seminal exhibition and an accompanying publication kontext kunst . the art of the 90s curated by peter weibel at the neue galerie im künstlerhaus graz ( austria ) in 1993 ( 02.10.–07.11.1993).
self-portrait as a lute player is one of many self-portrait paintings made by the italian baroque artist artemisia gentileschi . it was created between 1615 and 1617 for the medici family in florence . today , it hangs in the wadsworth atheneum museum of art , hartford , connecticut , us . it shows the artist posing as a lute player looking directly at the audience . the painting has symbolism in the headscarf and outfit that portray gentileschi in a costume that resembles a romani woman . self-portrait as a lute player has been interpreted as gentileschi portraying herself as a knowledgeable musician , a self portrayal as a prostitute , and as a fictive expression of one aspect of her identity.
economics of the arts and literature or cultural economics ( used below for convenience ) is a branch of economics that studies the economics of creation , distribution , and the consumption of works of art , literature and similar creative and/or cultural products . for a long time , the concept of the " arts " were confined to visual arts ( e.g . , painting ) and performing arts ( music , theatre , dance ) in the anglo-saxon tradition . usage has widened since the beginning of the 1980s with the study of cultural industry ( cinema , television programs , book and periodical publishing and music publishing ) and the economy of cultural institutions ( museums , libraries , historic buildings ) . the field is coded as jel : z11 in the journal of economic literature classification system used for article searches.
a yalalag cross is a particular style of christian cross made in yalalag , oaxaca , mexico . it is a pendant cross with medals on the arms . the cross is made of heavy , dark coin silver . there are many variations on the basic design ; all have crosses or medals hanging from the terminals . some have pendants larger than the cross itself ; often the center will feature a winged heart . they vary in length from 2 to 6 inches . local women wear the crosses on strings of beads and pendants with birds or pomegranates.
in a society , high culture encompasses cultural objects of aesthetic value which a society collectively esteems as being exemplary works of art , as well as the intellectual works of literature and music , history and philosophy which a society considers representative of their culture . in popular usage , the term high culture identifies the culture either of the upper class ( an aristocracy ) or of a status class ( the intelligentsia ) ; high culture also identifies a society’s common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition ( folk culture ) that transcends the social-class system of the society . sociologically , the term high culture is contrasted with the term low culture , which comprises the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes , such as the barbarians , the philistines , and hoi polloi ( the masses ) , though very often also enjoyed by the upper classes . matthew arnold introduced the term high culture in the book culture and anarchy ( 1869 ) . the preface defines culture as " the disinterested endeavour after man’s perfection " pursued , obtained , and achieved by effort to " know the best that has been said and thought in the world " . such a literary definition of high culture also includes philosophy . moreover , the philosophy of aesthetics proposed in high culture is a force for moral and political good . critically , the term " high culture " is contrasted with the terms " popular culture " and " mass culture " . in notes towards the definition of culture ( 1948 ) , t . s . eliot said that high culture and popular culture are necessary and complementary parts of the culture of a society . in the uses of literacy ( 1957 ) , richard hoggart presents the sociologic experience of the working-class man and woman in acquiring the cultural literacy , at university , which facilitates social upward mobility . in the u.s . , harold bloom and f . r . leavis pursued the definition of high culture , by way of the western canon of literature . media theorist steven johnson writes that , unlike popular culture , " the classics—and soon to be classics—are in their own right descriptions and explanations of the cultural systems that produced them . " he says that " a crucial way in which mass culture differs from high art " is that individual works of mass culture are less interesting than the broader cultural trends which produced them.
social artistry is the attempt to address or recognize a particular social issue using art and creativity . social artists are people who use creative skills to work with people or organizations in their community to affect change . while a traditional artist uses their creative skills to express their take on the world , a social artist puts their skills to use to help promote and improve communities . thus , the main aim of a social artist is to improve society as a whole and to help other people find their own means of creative expression . social artists may address issues such as youth alienation or the breakdown of communities . most commonly , social artists will address these problems by helping people express themselves and find their voice , or by bringing people together and using art to help them to foster an understanding of each other . social artistry can incorporate several different art forms including theatre , poetry , music and visual art . findings from 2013 confirm the shift from individual expression to community engagement , or " from autonomous to socially engaged . " lingo and tepper cite several examples : contemporary artists " see themselves as educators , social workers , policy actors , and health providers ( lena &  & cornfield , 2008 ; simonds , 2013 ; throsby &  & zednik , 2011 ) nick rabkin writes " more arts graduates end up in education than in any other occupation " ( 2013 ) social practice artists " freely blur the lines among object making , performance , political activism , community organizing , environmentalism and investigative journalism , creating a deeply participatory art that often flourishes outside the gallery and museum system"
artistic freedom ( or freedom of artistic expression ) can be defined as " the freedom to imagine , create and distribute diverse cultural expressions free of governmental censorship , political interference or the pressures of non-state actors . " generally , artistic freedom describes the extent of independence artists obtain to create art freely . moreover , artistic freedom concerns " the rights of citizens to access artistic expressions and take part in cultural life—and thus [ represents ] one of the key issues for democracy . " the extent of freedom indispensable to create art freely differs regarding the existence or nonexistence of national instruments established to protect , to promote , to control or to censor artists and their creative expressions . this is why universal , regional and national legal provisions have been installed to guarantee the right to freedom of expression in general and of artistic expression in particular . in 2013 , ms farida shaheed , united nations special rapporteur to the human rights council , presented her " report in the field of cultural rights : the right to freedom of expression and creativity " providing a comprehensive study of the status quo of , and specifically the limitations and challenges to , artistic freedom worldwide . in this study , artistic freedom " was put forward as a basic human right that went beyond the ' right to create ' or the ' right to participate in cultural life ' . " it stresses the range of fundamental freedoms indispensable for artistic expression and creativity , e.g . the freedoms of movement and association . " the state of artistic freedom " is an integral report published by arts censorship monitor freemuse on an annual basis.
a happening is a performance , event , or situation art , usually as performance art . the term was first used by allan kaprow during the 1950s to describe a range of art-related events.
dematerialization of the art object is an idea in conceptual art defined as the expressive physical manifestations in which the idea is paramount and the material form is secondary . in " six years : the dematerialization of the art object " lucy l . lippard characterizes the period of 1966 to 1972 as one in which the art object was dematerialised through the new artistic practices of conceptual art . =  = references = = 
below is an incomplete list of the canonically crowned marian images in poland by voivodeship . as of november 2024 , there have been 179 marian images in poland that were granted the honor of coronation by the holy see.
the warli or varli are an indigenous tribe ( adivasi ) of western india , living in mountainous as well as coastal areas along the maharashtra-gujarat border and surrounding areas . they have their own animistic beliefs , life , customs and traditions , and as a result of acculturation they have adopted many hindu beliefs . the warli speak the unwritten varli language which belongs to the southern zone of the indo-aryan languages . waralis have sub castes such as murde varli , davar varali.
information art , which is also known as informatism or data art , is an art form that is inspired by and principally incorporates data , computer science , information technology , artificial intelligence , and related data-driven fields . the information revolution has resulted in over-abundant data that are critical in a wide range of areas , from the internet to healthcare systems . related to conceptual art , electronic art and new media art , informatism considers this new technological , economical , and cultural paradigm shift , such that artworks may provide social commentaries , synthesize multiple disciplines , and develop new aesthetics . realization of information art often take , although not necessarily , interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches incorporating visual , audio , data analysis , performance , and others . furthermore , physical and virtual installations involving informatism often provide human-computer interaction that generate artistic contents based on the processing of large amounts of data.
the art world comprises everyone involved in producing , commissioning , presenting , preserving , promoting , chronicling , criticizing , buying and selling fine art . it is recognized that there are many art worlds , defined either by location or alternative definitions of fine art . some may use the singular art world to refer only to the elite level of globalized fine art . the art world(s ) are continually changing in response both to the creativity of those that create art and in response to social change.
human hair color is the pigmentation of human hair follicles and shafts due to two types of melanin : eumelanin and pheomelanin . generally , the more melanin present , the darker the hair . its tone depends on the ratio of black or brown eumelanin to yellow or red pheomelanin . melanin levels can vary over time , causing a person's hair color to change , and one person can have hair follicles of more than one color . some hair colors are associated with some ethnic groups because of the observed higher frequency of particular hair colors within their geographical region , e.g . straight , dark hair amongst east asians , southeast asians , polynesians , some central asians , and native americans ; a large variety of dark , fair , curly , straight , wavy or bushy amongst europeans , west asians , some central asians , and north africans ; and curly , dark , and uniquely helical hair amongst sub saharan africans . bright red hair is found in some european populations , and hair turns gray , white , or " silver " with age .