x-ray reconstruction of moving morphology or xromm is a scientific research technique . scientists use it to create 3d images and videos of moving skeletal systems in living organisms . in xromm , radio-opaque bone markers are implanted inside a living organism , which allows the x-ray video system to calculate accurate bone marker coordinates as the organism moves . xromm was invented at brown university . xromm can be used to model such movements as birds in flight , humans running , frogs jumping , and a toad swallowing its prey . technology , society and life or technology and culture refers to the inter-dependency , co-dependence , co-influence , and co-production of technology and society upon one another . evidence for this synergy has been found since humanity first started using simple tools . the inter-relationship has continued as modern technologies such as the printing press and computers have helped shape society . the first scientific approach to this relationship occurred with the development of tektology , the " science of organization " , in early twentieth century imperial russia . in modern academia , the interdisciplinary study of the mutual impacts of science , technology , and society , is called science and technology studies . the simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools . the prehistoric discovery of how to control fire and the later neolithic revolution increased the available sources of food , and the invention of the wheel helped humans to travel in and control their environment . developments in historic times have lessened physical barriers to communication and allowed humans to interact freely on a global scale , such as the printing press , telephone , and internet . technology has developed advanced economies , such as the modern global economy , and has led to the rise of a leisure class . many technological processes produce by-products known as pollution , and deplete natural resources to the detriment of earth's environment . innovations influence the values of society and raise new questions in the ethics of technology . examples include the rise of the notion of efficiency in terms of human productivity , and the challenges of bioethics . philosophical debates have arisen over the use of technology , with disagreements over whether technology improves the human condition or worsens it . neo-luddism , anarcho-primitivism , and similar reactionary movements criticize the pervasiveness of technology , arguing that it harms the environment and alienates people . however , proponents of ideologies such as transhumanism and techno-progressivism view continued technological progress as beneficial to society and the human condition . artificial nails , also known as fake nails , false nails , acrylic nails , press ons , nail extensions or nail enhancements , are extensions placed over fingernails as fashion accessories . many artificial nail designs attempt to mimic the appearance of real fingernails as closely as possible , while others may deliberately stray in favor of an artistic look . artificial nails require regular upkeep : it is recommended that they are attended to , on average , every two weeks ; however they may last over one month . nonetheless , their versatility in terms of shape , size , design and comparatively high durability are some advantages they hold over other types of manicures . a hot stab is a type of subsea connector specifically designed to be easily inserted and removed by a remotely operated underwater vehicle ( rov ) manipulator arm . the hot stab is the connector which supplies remote utilities . it is normally inserted into a port after removing the plug stab , which is left in the port when the hot stab is disconnected , to keep the port clean and free of fouling when not in use . the alignment is generally not critical for insertion , and the stab is guided into the port by the port geometry , which tends to be concentric cylinder and cone sections , tapering down from the handle end to the tip , with a series of o-ring seals separating the ports or contacts spaced along the length . the stab may be locked into place or may require the rov to hold it in place while it is in use . florn was a german company which made small manual travel and desk alarm clocks . most examples are “clam” or “oyster” compact styles for travel . the clocks were made beginning from at least 1936 . =  = references =  = the invention of the telephone was the culmination of work done by more than one individual , and led to an array of lawsuits relating to the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies . notable people included in this were antonio meucci , philipp reis , elisha gray and alexander graham bell . flyover is a feature on apple maps that allows users to view certain areas in a 3d setting . flyover also allows users to take " tours " of these locations through the city tours feature , showcasing various landmarks in the area . imagery is provided through the use of planes , which collect fine data on buildings . initially founded in 2012 , along with apple maps itself , flyover now covers over 300 cities , landmarks , and parks across five of the six inhabited continents through a series of several expansions , notably in 2014 , 2015 and 2019 . despite earlier issues , flyover has been praised for its detail and uniqueness . electromagnetically-enhanced physical vapor deposition ( epvd ) is coating technique developed by paradigm shift technologies , inc . which uses electromagnetic fields to improve traditional physical vapor deposition , particularly in high-stress applications like gun barrel coatings . seamless branching is a mechanism used on dvds and blu-ray discs to allow the player to jump to a different scene after finishing one . the most common purpose is to have several versions of a scene within one film , without having to store the entire film on the disc several times . a popular example is the platinum edition dvd of the lion king , where the user can select between the original theatrical version and an extended version . the two versions differ only in one scene ( the " morning report " ) . the dvd player is instructed to play the film normally up to this scene , then jump to the appropriate scene as selected by the user before the commencement of the film , and then jump back to play the rest of the film . the user normally does not notice this jump , hence the word seamless . larger scale examples of the same technique are seen in the 2000 ultimate edition dvd of terminator 2 : judgment day , the 2007 dvd rerelease of blade runner , the platinum and diamond edition dvds of beauty and the beast , and the 4k ultra hd version of conan the barbarian , in which three different cuts of the films are playable from the same discs . another possible use of seamless branching is for the localisation ( translation ) of on-screen visible text . the star wars dvds with their opening crawl are a prime example . normally , only the audio track of films is translated into other languages , but when text central to the plot is visible on-screen , the scene may be created once for every language , and the dvd player can be instructed to select the appropriate version of the scene depending on the user's language preference . however , for this purpose a technique called multi-angle is used more often . underwater acoustic communication is a technique of sending and receiving messages in water . there are several ways of employing such communication but the most common is by using hydrophones . underwater communication is difficult due to factors such as multi-path propagation , time variations of the channel , small available bandwidth and strong signal attenuation , especially over long ranges . compared to terrestrial communication , underwater communication has low data rates because it uses acoustic waves instead of electromagnetic waves . at the beginning of the 20th century some ships communicated by underwater bells as well as using the system for navigation . submarine signals were at the time competitive with the primitive maritime radionavigation . the later fessenden oscillator allowed communication with submarines . digital ecology is a science about the interdependence of digital systems and the natural environment . this field of study looks at the methods in which digital technologies are changing the way how people interact with the environment , as well as how these technologies affects the environment itself . it is a branch of ecology that promotes green practices to fight digital pollution . currently the total carbon footprint of the internet , our electronic devices , and supporting elements accounts for about 3.7 % of global greenhouse gas emissions ( including about 1.4 per cent of overall global carbon dioxide emissions ) . digital ecology can also be used to denote the use of technology in the study of ecological systems and processing , examining how technological developments aid in the collection , analysis and management of ecological data . important fields in this aspect of digital ecology include the development of drone technology for wildlife monitoring . digital ecology is a complex and multifaceted field that requires a holistic approach to understanding the relationship between digital technologies and the natural world . with the increasing reliance on digital technologies , it is important to consider the environmental consequences of these technologies and work towards more sustainable solutions . gerontechnology , also called gerotechnology is an inter - and multidisciplinary academic as well as a professional field that combines various disciplines of gerontology and technology . sustainability of an aging society depends upon our effectiveness in creating technological environments , including assistive technology and inclusive design , for innovative and independent living and social participation of older adults in any state of health , comfort as well as safety . in short , gerontechnology concerns matching technological environments to health , housing , mobility , communication , leisure , work and also the personality/individual dispositions of older people . gerontechnology is most frequently identified as a subset of healthtech and is -  - since the 2010s -  - more commonly referred to as agetech or agetech in europe and the united states . research outcomes form the basis for designers , builders , engineers , manufacturers , and those in the health professions ( nursing , medicine , gerontology , geriatrics , environmental psychology , developmental psychology , etc . ) , to provide an optimum living environment for the widest range of ages . the motograph news bulletin , also known as the zipper , was a 380-feet-long electromechanical news ticker display that wrapped around one times square . the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to technology : technology – collection of tools , including machinery , modifications , arrangements and procedures used by humans . engineering is the discipline that seeks to study and design new technology . technologies significantly affect human as well as other animal species ' ability to control and adapt to their natural environments . technology , society and life or technology and culture refers to the inter-dependency , co-dependence , co-influence , and co-production of technology and society upon one another . evidence for this synergy has been found since humanity first started using simple tools . the inter-relationship has continued as modern technologies such as the printing press and computers have helped shape society . the first scientific approach to this relationship occurred with the development of tektology , the " science of organization " , in early twentieth century imperial russia . in modern academia , the interdisciplinary study of the mutual impacts of science , technology , and society , is called science and technology studies . the simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools . the prehistoric discovery of how to control fire and the later neolithic revolution increased the available sources of food , and the invention of the wheel helped humans to travel in and control their environment . developments in historic times have lessened physical barriers to communication and allowed humans to interact freely on a global scale , such as the printing press , telephone , and internet . technology has developed advanced economies , such as the modern global economy , and has led to the rise of a leisure class . many technological processes produce by-products known as pollution , and deplete natural resources to the detriment of earth's environment . innovations influence the values of society and raise new questions in the ethics of technology . examples include the rise of the notion of efficiency in terms of human productivity , and the challenges of bioethics . philosophical debates have arisen over the use of technology , with disagreements over whether technology improves the human condition or worsens it . neo-luddism , anarcho-primitivism , and similar reactionary movements criticize the pervasiveness of technology , arguing that it harms the environment and alienates people . however , proponents of ideologies such as transhumanism and techno-progressivism view continued technological progress as beneficial to society and the human condition . seamless branching is a mechanism used on dvds and blu-ray discs to allow the player to jump to a different scene after finishing one . the most common purpose is to have several versions of a scene within one film , without having to store the entire film on the disc several times . a popular example is the platinum edition dvd of the lion king , where the user can select between the original theatrical version and an extended version . the two versions differ only in one scene ( the " morning report " ) . the dvd player is instructed to play the film normally up to this scene , then jump to the appropriate scene as selected by the user before the commencement of the film , and then jump back to play the rest of the film . the user normally does not notice this jump , hence the word seamless . larger scale examples of the same technique are seen in the 2000 ultimate edition dvd of terminator 2 : judgment day , the 2007 dvd rerelease of blade runner , the platinum and diamond edition dvds of beauty and the beast , and the 4k ultra hd version of conan the barbarian , in which three different cuts of the films are playable from the same discs . another possible use of seamless branching is for the localisation ( translation ) of on-screen visible text . the star wars dvds with their opening crawl are a prime example . normally , only the audio track of films is translated into other languages , but when text central to the plot is visible on-screen , the scene may be created once for every language , and the dvd player can be instructed to select the appropriate version of the scene depending on the user's language preference . however , for this purpose a technique called multi-angle is used more often . moral outsourcing refers to placing responsibility for ethical decision-making on to external entities , often algorithms . the term is often used in discussions of computer science and algorithmic fairness , but it can apply to any situation in which one appeals to outside agents in order to absolve themselves of responsibility for their actions . in this context , moral outsourcing specifically refers to the tendency of society to blame technology , rather than its creators or users , for any harm it may cause . this list compares main features of digital single-lens reflex cameras ( dslrs ) . order of this list should be firstly by manufacturer alphabetically , secondly from high end to low end models . key : to save space , the " eos " is left out from canon model names . iso values include maximum sensor range , even if in manual mode ( " h1 " , " hi 1 " , etc . ) continuous shooting : fps is " frames per second " , indicates the highest speed for full resolution , without separate battery grip ( i.e . , not integrated into the body ) . memory card types : cf is compactflash , sd is secure digital . dimensions are rounded to the nearest whole number . weight : with standard battery unless noted otherwise . moral outsourcing refers to placing responsibility for ethical decision-making on to external entities , often algorithms . the term is often used in discussions of computer science and algorithmic fairness , but it can apply to any situation in which one appeals to outside agents in order to absolve themselves of responsibility for their actions . in this context , moral outsourcing specifically refers to the tendency of society to blame technology , rather than its creators or users , for any harm it may cause . electromagnetically-enhanced physical vapor deposition ( epvd ) is coating technique developed by paradigm shift technologies , inc . which uses electromagnetic fields to improve traditional physical vapor deposition , particularly in high-stress applications like gun barrel coatings .