this glossary of the french revolution generally does not explicate names of individual people or their political associations ; those can be found in list of people associated with the french revolution . the terminology routinely used in discussing the french revolution can be confusing . the same political faction may be referred to by different historians ( or by the same historian in different contexts ) by different names . during much of the revolutionary period , the french used a newly invented calendar that fell into complete disuse after the revolutionary era . different legislative bodies had rather similar names , not always translated uniformly into english.
the 2014 south korea floods were a series of floods in late august 2014 caused by heavy rainfall around the honam and yeongnam . this flood season killed about 10 people , and caused many accidents during 18 august to 25 august . in some places , the rain fell over 50 mm in an hour.
the genoese map is a 1457 world map . the map relied extensively on the account of the traveler to asia niccolo da conti , rather than the usual source of marco polo . the author is not known , but is a more modern development than the fra mauro world map , with fairly good proportions given to each continents . the map also depicts a three-masted european ship in the indian ocean , something which had not occurred yet at the time . a genoese flag in the upper northwest corner of the map establishes this map's origin , along with the coat of arms of the spinolas , a prominent genoese mercantile family . niccolò de'conti was from a noble mercantile family ; at an early age he decided to follow in the family tradition by establishing a lucrative trading operation in the east.[1 ] the genoese map's sea monsters reflect the cartographer's interest in exotic wonders , which is everywhere in evidence on the map , and typical of the scientific outlook of the early modern period , which was driven by curiosity and took a great interest in marvels . the demon-like monster in particular is evidence of the cartographer's research in recent travel literature to find sea monsters for his map . this map was done in rich color and was not made particularly used for anything but for display . they say this map was sent to the portuguese court in 1474 and then to columbus and this is the map that he used to travel the india sea to the atlantic but was never proven . the map is now the property of the italian government and is to be found in the biblioteca nazionale centrale of florence . the oval form is not unknown among medieval maps . hugh of saint victor had described the world as being the shape of noah's ark , and ranulf higden world maps were oval . a standard way of describing the earth was to compare it to an egg . the main purpose of the analogy seems to have been to describe the various spheres surrounding the earth ( egg white , shell ) , but the idea of an egg shape could have been derived from these works . another possibility is that the oval form represents the mandorla , or nimbus , which surrounded christ in many medieval works of art.
the klondike gold rush is commemorated through film , literature , historical parks etc.
historical classification groups the various history topics into different categories according to subject matter as shown below.
a renaissance festival ( medieval fair or ren faire ) is an outdoor gathering that aims to entertain its guests by recreating a historical setting , most often the english renaissance . renaissance festivals generally include costumed entertainers or fair-goers , musical and theatrical acts , art and handicrafts for sale , and festival food . these fairs are open to the public and typically commercial . some are permanent theme parks , while others are short-term events in a fairground , winery , or other large spaces . some renaissance fairs offer campgrounds for those who wish to stay more than one day . many renaissance fairs are set during the reign of queen elizabeth i of england . some are set earlier , during the reign of henry viii , or in other countries , such as france . others are set outside the era of the renaissance ; these may include earlier medieval periods such as the viking age or later periods such as the golden age of piracy . some engage in deliberate ' time travel ' by encouraging participants to wear costumes representing several eras in a broad time period . renaissance fairs encourage visitors to engage with costumes and audience participation , often renting outfits to fairgoers . many welcome fantasy elements like wizards and elves.
national memory is a form of collective memory defined by shared experiences and culture . it is an integral part to national identity . it represents one specific form of cultural memory , which makes an essential contribution to national group cohesion . historically national communities have drawn upon commemorative ceremonies and monuments , myths and rituals , glorified individuals , objects , and events in their own history to produce a common narrative . according to lorraine ryan , national memory is based on the public's reception of national historic narratives and the ability of people to affirm the legitimacy of these narratives.
the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to history : history – discovery , collection , organization , and presentation of information about past events . history can also mean the period of time after writing was invented ( the beginning of recorded history).
"histoire/geschichte " is a series of franco-german history coursebooks , published since 2006 . the projects aims to create a " shared vision " between french and germans regarding the history of europe since antiquity . the project originated from the " franco-german youth parliament " in berlin on 21 january 2003 which gathered 500 young pupils from the french and german upper secondary school at the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the franco-german élysée treaty , later taken up by german department for foreign affairs and french ministry of education . they suggested the development of a " history coursebook having the same content in both countries so that negative preconceptions caused by mutual ignorance might be avoided " . this coursebook has been available since september 2006 for grade 12 students ( klasse 12/13 in germany ) . it is published jointly by editis in france and ernst klett in germany . a coursebook for grade 11 has also been produced . the set of three coursebooks will cover the period from antiquity to modern times.
in search of . . . is an american television series that was broadcast weekly from 1976 to 1982 , devoted to mysterious phenomena . it was created after the success of three one-hour documentaries produced by creator alan landsburg : in search of ancient astronauts in 1973 ( based on the 1968 book / 1970 film chariots of the gods ? by erich von däniken ) , in search of ancient mysteries ( 1974 ) , and the outer space connection in 1975 ( later adapted into popular paperbacks written by landsburg ) , all of which featured narration by rod serling , who was the initial choice to host the spin-off show . serling died before production started , and leonard nimoy was then selected to be the host . the series was revived with host mitch pileggi in 2002 and again in 2018 with zachary quinto for the history channel . the original series was shown in australia in the 1980s under the title great mysteries of the world , with each episode having an introduction and conclusion presented by television presenter scott lambert.
history ( derived from ancient greek ἱστορία ( historía ) ' inquiry ; knowledge acquired by investigation ' ) is the systematic study and documentation of the human past . history is an academic discipline which uses a narrative to describe , examine , question , and analyse past events , and investigate their patterns of cause and effect . historians debate which narrative best explains an event , as well as the significance of different causes and effects . historians debate the nature of history as an end in itself , and its usefulness in giving perspective on the problems of the present . the period of events before the invention of writing systems is considered prehistory . " history " is an umbrella term comprising past events as well as the memory , discovery , collection , organization , presentation , and interpretation of these events . historians seek knowledge of the past using historical sources such as written documents , oral accounts or traditional oral histories , art and material artifacts , and ecological markers . stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding king arthur ) , are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends . history differs from myth in that it is supported by verifiable evidence . however , ancient cultural influences have helped create variant interpretations of the nature of history , which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today . the modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and certain topical or thematic elements of historical investigation . history is taught as a part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of history is a major discipline in universities . herodotus , a 5th-century bce greek historian , is often considered the " father of history " , as one of the first historians in the western tradition , though he has been criticized as the " father of lies " . along with his contemporary thucydides , he helped form the foundations for the modern study of past events and societies . their works continue to be read today , and the gap between the culture-focused herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing . in east asia a state chronicle , the spring and autumn annals , was reputed to date from as early as 722 bce , though only 2nd-century bce texts have survived . the title " father of history " has also been attributed , in their respective societies , to sima qian , ibn khaldun , and kenneth dike.
national memory is a form of collective memory defined by shared experiences and culture . it is an integral part to national identity . it represents one specific form of cultural memory , which makes an essential contribution to national group cohesion . historically national communities have drawn upon commemorative ceremonies and monuments , myths and rituals , glorified individuals , objects , and events in their own history to produce a common narrative . according to lorraine ryan , national memory is based on the public's reception of national historic narratives and the ability of people to affirm the legitimacy of these narratives.
washoe traditional narratives include myths , legends , tales , and oral histories preserved by the washoe people of the lake tahoe and surrounding sierra nevada area of eastern california and western nevada . washoe oral literature is most closely related to that of the washoe's numic neighbors.(see also traditional narratives ( native california).)
the british society for the history of pharmacy ( bshp ) is an organisation in the united kingdom devoted to the history of pharmacy . it was established in 1967 , although its roots date to 1952 , when the council of the pharmaceutical society established a history of pharmacy committee . the society has published a journal , pharmaceutical historian , from the beginning . since 2017 it has been issued by bshp on behalf of the international society for the history of pharmacy . from its foundation , bshp has been keen to encourage the study of pharmacy history amongst students . this advocacy role has included providing lecturers for history courses at schools of pharmacy . the organisation is affiliated with the international society for the history of pharmacy and the british society for the history of medicine . its president is chris duffin . =  = references = = 
caroline ann tuke malone ( born 1957 ) is a british academic and archaeologist . she was professor of prehistory at queen's university , belfast from 2013 and is now emeritus professor.
lists of battles contain links to sets of articles on battles . they may be organized alphabetically , by era , by conflict , by participants or location , or by death toll . see category:battles for a complete list of articles on battles.
since the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic , there have been efforts by scientists , governments , and others to determine the origin of the sars-cov-2 virus . similar to other outbreaks , the virus was derived from a bat-borne virus and most likely was transmitted to humans via another animal in nature , or during wildlife bushmeat trade such as that in food markets . while other explanations , such as speculations that sars-cov-2 was accidentally released from a laboratory have been proposed , such explanations are not supported by evidence . conspiracy theories about the virus's origin have also proliferated . sars-cov-2 has close genetic similarity to multiple previously identified bat coronaviruses , suggesting it crossed over into humans from bats . research is ongoing as to whether sars-cov-2 came directly from bats or indirectly through an intermediate host , such as pangolins , civets , or raccoon dogs . genomic sequence evidence indicates the spillover event introducing sars-cov-2 to humans likely occurred in late 2019 . as with the 2002–2004 sars-cov-1 outbreak , efforts to trace the specific geographic and taxonomic origins of sars-cov-2 could take years , and results may be inconclusive . in july 2022 , two papers published in science described novel epidemiological and genetic evidence that suggested the pandemic likely began at the huanan seafood wholesale market and did not come from a laboratory.
tunnel history is a term coined by historian j . h . hexter , to describe how historians divide past events into separate compartments , without connecting them . =  = references = = 
the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the renaissance : renaissance – cultural movement that spanned roughly the 14th to the 17th century , beginning in italy in the late middle ages and later spreading to the rest of europe . the term is also used more loosely to refer to the historical era , but since the changes of the renaissance were not uniform across europe , this is a general use of the term.
the following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the middle ages : middle ages – periodization of european history from the 5th century to the 15th century . the middle ages follows the fall of the western roman empire in 476 and precedes the early modern era . it is the middle period of a three-period division of western history : classic , medieval and modern .