shape-memory polymers ( smps ) are polymeric smart materials that have the ability to return from a deformed state ( temporary shape ) to their original ( permanent ) shape when induced by an external stimulus ( trigger ) , such as temperature change.
the san marino scale is a suggested scale for assessing risks associated with deliberate transmissions from earth aimed to possible extraterrestrial intelligent life . the scale evaluates the significance of transmissions from earth as a function of signal intensity and information content . the scale was suggested by iván almár at a conference in san marino in 2005 . the radio output of jupiter , saturn and neptune is not considered in the model . the san marino scale was subsequently adopted by the seti permanent study group of the international academy of astronautics at its 2007 meeting in hyderabad , india.
humeanism refers to the philosophy of david hume and to the tradition of thought inspired by him . hume was an influential eighteenth century scottish philosopher well known for his empirical approach , which he applied to various fields in philosophy . in the philosophy of science , he is notable for developing the regularity theory of causation , which in its strongest form states that causation is nothing but constant conjunction of certain types of events without any underlying forces responsible for this regularity of conjunction . this is closely connected to his metaphysical thesis that there are no necessary connections between distinct entities . the humean theory of action defines actions as bodily behavior caused by mental states and processes without the need to refer to an agent responsible for this . the slogan of hume's theory of practical reason is that " reason is...the slave of the passions " . it restricts the sphere of practical reason to instrumental rationality concerning which means to employ to achieve a given end . but it denies reason a direct role regarding which ends to follow . central to hume's position in metaethics is the is-ought distinction . it states that is-statements , which concern facts about the natural world , do not imply ought-statements , which are moral or evaluative claims about what should be done or what has value . in philosophy of mind , hume is well known for his development of the bundle theory of the self . it states that the self is to be understood as a bundle of mental states and not as a substance acting as the bearer of these states , as is the traditional conception . many of these positions were initially motivated by hume's empirical outlook . it emphasizes the need to ground one's theories in experience and faults opposing theories for failing to do so . but many philosophers within the humean tradition have gone beyond these methodological restrictions and have drawn various metaphysical conclusions from hume's ideas.
mohamed abdi mohamed ( gandhi ) ( somali : maxamed cabdi maxamed «gaandi» , arabic : محمد عبدي محمد ; 1949 – 18 april 2021 ) was a somali geologist , anthropologist , historian and politician . he was the former minister of defense of somalia , and the former president of azania ( jubbaland ) . in july 2014 , gandhi was appointed somalia's ambassador to canada.
greenhouse gas emissions are one of the environmental impacts of electricity generation . measurement of life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions involves calculating the global warming potential ( gwp ) of energy sources through life-cycle assessment . these are usually sources of only electrical energy but sometimes sources of heat are evaluated . the findings are presented in units of global warming potential per unit of electrical energy generated by that source . the scale uses the global warming potential unit , the carbon dioxide equivalent ( co2e ) , and the unit of electrical energy , the kilowatt hour ( kwh ) . the goal of such assessments is to cover the full life of the source , from material and fuel mining through construction to operation and waste management . in 2014 , the intergovernmental panel on climate change harmonized the carbon dioxide equivalent ( co2e ) findings of the major electricity generating sources in use worldwide . this was done by analyzing the findings of hundreds of individual scientific papers assessing each energy source . coal is by far the worst emitter , followed by natural gas , with solar , wind and nuclear all low-carbon . hydropower , biomass , geothermal and ocean power may generally be low-carbon , but poor design or other factors could result in higher emissions from individual power stations . for all technologies , advances in efficiency , and therefore reductions in co2e since the time of publication , have not been included . for example , the total life cycle emissions from wind power may have lessened since publication . similarly , due to the time frame over which the studies were conducted , nuclear generation ii reactor's co2e results are presented and not the global warming potential of generation iii reactors . other limitations of the data include : a ) missing life cycle phases , and , b ) uncertainty as to where to define the cut-off point in the global warming potential of an energy source . the latter is important in assessing a combined electrical grid in the real world , rather than the established practice of simply assessing the energy source in isolation.
the google science fair was a worldwide ( excluding cuba , iran , north korea , sudan , myanmar/burma , syria , zimbabwe and any other u.s . sanctioned country ) online science competition sponsored by google , lego , virgin galactic , national geographic and scientific american . it was an annual event spanning the years 2011 through 2018 . the first google science fair was announced in january 2011 ; entries were due on april 7 , 2011 , and judging occurred in july 2011 . the competition is open to 13 - to 18-year-old students around the globe , who formulate a hypothesis , perform an experiment , and present their results . all students must have an internet connection and a free google account to participate , and the projects must be in english , german , italian , spanish , or french . the final submission must include ten sections , which are the summary , an " about me " page , the steps of the project , and a works cited page . entries are judged on eight core criteria , which include the student's presentation , question , hypothesis , research , experiment , data , observations , and conclusion . prizes are awarded to three finalists . the grand prize includes a national geographic trip to the galapagos islands , and a us$50,000 scholarship ; finalists will receive a us$15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations . while larry page and sergey brin were phd students at stanford university in california , they created google in january 1996 as a research project ; google employee tom oliveri highlighted the company's early days : " science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science . our company was founded on an experiment . we firmly believe that science can change the world " , he stated . as of october 28 , 2019 , no details for the next google science fair have been released.
the following is a list of people who are considered a " father " or " mother " ( or " founding father " or " founding mother " ) of a scientific field . such people are generally regarded to have made the first significant contributions to and/or delineation of that field ; they may also be seen as " a " rather than " the " father or mother of the field . debate over who merits the title can be perennial.
optics is the branch of physics which involves the behavior and properties of light , including its interactions with matter and the construction of instruments that use or detect it . optics usually describes the behavior of visible , ultraviolet , and infrared light . because light is an electromagnetic wave , other forms of electromagnetic radiation such as x-rays , microwaves , and radio waves exhibit similar properties.
applied science is the application of the scientific method and scientific knowledge to attain practical goals . it includes a broad range of disciplines , such as engineering and medicine . applied science is often contrasted with basic science , which is focused on advancing scientific theories and laws that explain and predict natural or other phenomena . there are applied natural sciences , as well as applied formal and social sciences . applied science examples include genetic epidemiology which applies statistics and probability theory , and applied psychology , including criminology.
charles karsner mills , m.d . ( december 4 , 1845 – may 28 , 1931 ) was an american physician and a pioneer in neurology . he founded the first neurology department in a general hospital in the united states at the philadelphia general hospital in 1877 and served as chief of neurology at the hospital of the university of pennsylvania . he was a professor of neurology at the university of pennsylvania from 1877 to 1915 . he founded the philadelphia polyclinic and taught there as professor of diseases of the mind and nervous system from 1883 to 1898 . he led major reforms to psychiatric hospitals in the philadelphia area including the closing of the blockley almshouse and the construction of the philadelphia general hospital and byberry hospital for mental diseases . he published over 300 scientific papers on neurology topics including cerebral localization , electrotherapeutics , aphasias and the effects of tumors in the central nervous system . in 1900 , he first described a case of ascending paralysis , a rare motor neuron condition that has become known as mills ' syndrome.
preregistration is the practice of registering the hypotheses , methods , or analyses of a scientific study before it is conducted . clinical trial registration is similar , although it may not require the registration of a study's analysis protocol . finally , registered reports include the peer review and in principle acceptance of a study protocol prior to data collection . preregistration can have a number of different goals , including ( a ) facilitating and documenting research plans , ( b ) identifying and reducing questionable research practices and researcher biases , ( c ) distinguishing between confirmatory and exploratory analyses , ( d ) transparently evaluating the severity of hypothesis tests , and , in the case of registered reports , ( e ) facilitating results-blind peer review , and ( f ) reducing publication bias . a number of research practices such as p-hacking , publication bias , data dredging , inappropriate forms of post hoc analysis , and harking may increase the probability of incorrect claims . although the idea of preregistration is old , the practice of preregistering studies has gained prominence to mitigate to some of the issues that are thought to underlie the replication crisis.
the world line ( or worldline ) of an object is the path that an object traces in 4-dimensional spacetime . it is an important concept of modern physics , and particularly theoretical physics . the concept of a " world line " is distinguished from concepts such as an " orbit " or a " trajectory " ( e.g . , a planet's orbit in space or the trajectory of a car on a road ) by inclusion of the dimension time , and typically encompasses a large area of spacetime wherein paths which are straight perceptually are rendered as curves in spacetime to show their ( relatively ) more absolute position states—to reveal the nature of special relativity or gravitational interactions . the idea of world lines was originated by physicists and was pioneered by hermann minkowski . the term is now used most often in the context of relativity theories ( i.e . , special relativity and general relativity).
applied science is the application of the scientific method and scientific knowledge to attain practical goals . it includes a broad range of disciplines , such as engineering and medicine . applied science is often contrasted with basic science , which is focused on advancing scientific theories and laws that explain and predict natural or other phenomena . there are applied natural sciences , as well as applied formal and social sciences . applied science examples include genetic epidemiology which applies statistics and probability theory , and applied psychology , including criminology.
the microscopic scale ( from ancient greek μικρός ( mikrós ) ' small ' and σκοπέω ( skopéō ) ' to look ( at ) ; examine , inspect ' ) is the scale of objects and events smaller than those that can easily be seen by the naked eye , requiring a lens or microscope to see them clearly . in physics , the microscopic scale is sometimes regarded as the scale between the macroscopic scale and the quantum scale . microscopic units and measurements are used to classify and describe very small objects . one common microscopic length scale unit is the micrometre ( also called a micron ) ( symbol : μm ) , which is one millionth of a metre.
qualimetry is a scientific discipline which concerns itself with the methods and problems of quantification of the quality of any object : things or processes , whether natural or man-made , products of labour or nature , whether living or inanimate , etc . it is a scientific theory of the quantitative determination of quality developed in the former ussr by g.g.azgaldov and currently used in development of russian standards ( gost ) , etc.
the keeper : the legend of omar khayyam is an independently released drama film about the life of the famous persian intellectual omar khayyám . it was directed by kayvan mashayekh and stars vanessa redgrave and moritz bleibtreu . it was released in 2005.
the most important fundamental distance measurements in astronomy come from trigonometric parallax , as applied in the stellar parallax method . as the earth orbits the sun , the position of nearby stars will appear to shift slightly against the more distant background . these shifts are angles in an isosceles triangle , with 2 au ( the distance between the extreme positions of earth's orbit around the sun ) making the base leg of the triangle and the distance to the star being the long equal-length legs . the amount of shift is quite small , even for the nearest stars , measuring 1 arcsecond for an object at 1 parsec's distance ( 3.26 light-years ) , and thereafter decreasing in angular amount as the distance increases . astronomers usually express distances in units of parsecs ( parallax arcseconds ) ; light-years are used in popular media . because parallax becomes smaller for a greater stellar distance , useful distances can be measured only for stars which are near enough to have a parallax larger than a few times the precision of the measurement . in the 1990s , for example , the hipparcos mission obtained parallaxes for over a hundred thousand stars with a precision of about a milliarcsecond , providing useful distances for stars out to a few hundred parsecs . the hubble space telescope's wide field camera 3 has the potential to provide a precision of 20 to 40 microarcseconds , enabling reliable distance measurements up to 5,000 parsecs ( 16,000 ly ) for small numbers of stars . the gaia space mission provided similarly accurate distances to most stars brighter than 15th magnitude . distances can be measured within 10 % as far as the galactic center , about 30,000 light years away . stars have a velocity relative to the sun that causes proper motion ( transverse across the sky ) and radial velocity ( motion toward or away from the sun ) . the former is determined by plotting the changing position of the stars over many years , while the latter comes from measuring the doppler shift of the star's spectrum caused by motion along the line of sight . for a group of stars with the same spectral class and a similar magnitude range , a mean parallax can be derived from statistical analysis of the proper motions relative to their radial velocities . this statistical parallax method is useful for measuring the distances of bright stars beyond 50 parsecs and giant variable stars , including cepheids and the rr lyrae variables . the motion of the sun through space provides a longer baseline that will increase the accuracy of parallax measurements , known as secular parallax . for stars in the milky way disk , this corresponds to a mean baseline of 4 au per year , while for halo stars the baseline is 40 au per year . after several decades , the baseline can be orders of magnitude greater than the earth–sun baseline used for traditional parallax . however , secular parallax introduces a higher level of uncertainty because the relative velocity of observed stars is an additional unknown . when applied to samples of multiple stars , the uncertainty can be reduced ; the uncertainty is inversely proportional to the square root of the sample size . moving cluster parallax is a technique where the motions of individual stars in a nearby star cluster can be used to find the distance to the cluster . only open clusters are near enough for this technique to be useful . in particular the distance obtained for the hyades has historically been an important step in the distance ladder . other individual objects can have fundamental distance estimates made for them under special circumstances . if the expansion of a gas cloud , like a supernova remnant or planetary nebula , can be observed over time , then an expansion parallax distance to that cloud can be estimated . those measurements however suffer from uncertainties in the deviation of the object from sphericity . binary stars which are both visual and spectroscopic binaries also can have their distance estimated by similar means , and do not suffer from the above geometric uncertainty . the common characteristic to these methods is that a measurement of angular motion is combined with a measurement of the absolute velocity ( usually obtained via the doppler effect ) . the distance estimate comes from computing how far the object must be to make its observed absolute velocity appear with the observed angular motion . expansion parallaxes in particular can give fundamental distance estimates for objects that are very far , because supernova ejecta have large expansion velocities and large sizes ( compared to stars ) . further , they can be observed with radio interferometers which can measure very small angular motions . these combine to provide fundamental distance estimates to supernovae in other galaxies . though valuable , such cases are quite rare , so they serve as important consistency checks on the distance ladder rather than workhorse steps by themselves.
morphological echo is a title shared by two oil-on-panel paintings created by the spanish surrealist salvador dalí.
longitude : the true story of a lone genius who solved the greatest scientific problem of his time is a 1995 best-selling book by dava sobel about john harrison , an 18th-century clockmaker who created the first clock ( chronometer ) sufficiently accurate to be used to determine longitude at sea—an important development in navigation . the book was made into a television series entitled longitude . in 1998 , the illustrated longitude was published , supplementing the earlier text with 180 images of characters , events , instruments , maps and publications.
astronaut training describes the complex process of preparing astronauts in regions around the world for their space missions before , during and after the flight , which includes medical tests , physical training , extra-vehicular activity ( eva ) training , wilderness survival training ,  , water survival training ,  , robotics training ,  , procedure training , rehabilitation process , as well as training on experiments they will accomplish during their stay in space . virtual and physical training facilities have been integrated to familiarize astronauts with the conditions they will encounter during all phases of flight and prepare astronauts for a microgravity environment . special considerations must be made during training to ensure a safe and successful mission , which is why the apollo astronauts received training for geology field work on the lunar surface and why research is being conducted on best practices for future extended missions , such as the trip to mars .