the international trade of fine art is most precisely defined as the trade across nations of unique , non-reproducible works by an artist . the art trade contradicts typical international trade models since it is a culturally significant good . it is not treated by consumers the same way any other commodity would because of the aesthetic value that is unique to each piece . despite existing as a finite physical piece , unique art is still considered intellectual property . this sparks the debate as to whether art exports should be restricted for nationalistic and cultural reasons , or liberalized for the sake of a healthier international market . dematerialization of the art object is an idea in conceptual art defined as the expressive physical manifestations in which the idea is paramount and the material form is secondary . in " six years : the dematerialization of the art object " lucy l . lippard characterizes the period of 1966 to 1972 as one in which the art object was dematerialised through the new artistic practices of conceptual art . =  = references =  = list of fellows and residents of the american academy in rome is a list of those who have been awarded the rome prize or were residents of the american academy in rome . the rome prize is a prestigious american award made annually by the american academy in rome , through a nationwide competition , to 15 emerging artists ( working in architecture , landscape architecture , design , historic preservation and conservation , literature , musical composition , or visual arts ) and to 15 scholars ( working in ancient , medieval , renaissance and early modern , or modern italian studies ) . residents are selected from scholars and creative artists at a further stages in their career for shorter residencies at the american academy . some of these residents are marked ( r ) in the table below . affiliated fellows ( afaar ) and visiting artists and scholars are not listed below . interactive art is a form of art that involves the spectator in a way that allows the art to achieve its purpose . some interactive art installations achieve this by letting the observer walk through , over or around them ; others ask the artist or the spectators to become part of the artwork in some way . works of this kind of art frequently feature computers , interfaces and sometimes sensors to respond to motion , heat , meteorological changes or other types of input their makers have programmed the works to respond to . most examples of virtual internet art and electronic art are highly interactive . sometimes , visitors are able to navigate through a hypertext environment ; some works accept textual or visual input from outside ; sometimes an audience can influence the course of a performance or can even participate in it . some other interactive artworks are considered as immersive as the quality of interaction involve all the spectrum of surrounding stimuli . virtual reality environments like works by maurice benayoun and jeffrey shaw are highly interactive as the work the spectators – maurice benayoun call them " visitors " , miroslaw rogala calls them ( v)users , char davies " immersants " – interact with take all their fields of perception . though some of the earliest examples of interactive art have been dated back to the 1920s , most digital art didn't make its official entry into the world of art until the late 1990s . since this debut , countless museums and venues have been increasingly accommodating digital and interactive art into their productions . this budding genre of art is continuing to grow and evolve in a somewhat rapid manner through internet social sub-culture , as well as through large scale urban installations . social artistry is the attempt to address or recognize a particular social issue using art and creativity . social artists are people who use creative skills to work with people or organizations in their community to affect change . while a traditional artist uses their creative skills to express their take on the world , a social artist puts their skills to use to help promote and improve communities . thus , the main aim of a social artist is to improve society as a whole and to help other people find their own means of creative expression . social artists may address issues such as youth alienation or the breakdown of communities . most commonly , social artists will address these problems by helping people express themselves and find their voice , or by bringing people together and using art to help them to foster an understanding of each other . social artistry can incorporate several different art forms including theatre , poetry , music and visual art . findings from 2013 confirm the shift from individual expression to community engagement , or " from autonomous to socially engaged . " lingo and tepper cite several examples : contemporary artists " see themselves as educators , social workers , policy actors , and health providers ( lena &  & cornfield , 2008 ; simonds , 2013 ; throsby &  & zednik , 2011 ) nick rabkin writes " more arts graduates end up in education than in any other occupation " ( 2013 ) social practice artists " freely blur the lines among object making , performance , political activism , community organizing , environmentalism and investigative journalism , creating a deeply participatory art that often flourishes outside the gallery and museum system " useful art , or useful arts or technics , is concerned with the skills and methods of practical subjects such as manufacture and craftsmanship . the phrase was used during the victorian era and earlier as an antonym to the performing art and the fine art . the term " useful arts " is used in the united states constitution , article one , section 8 , clause 8 , which is the basis of united states patent and copyright law : " to promote the progress of science and useful arts , by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries . .  . " according to the us supreme court , the phrase " useful arts " is meant to reference inventions . there is controversy in the court as to whether or not this includes business methods . in the majority opinion for in re bilski , justice anthony kennedy states " the patent act leaves open the possibility that there are at least some processes that can be fairly described as business methods that are within patentable subject matter under §101 . " at the appellate level , federal circuit court judge mayer disagreed because he did not consider the claimed business method to be within the useful arts . it is common to find minced oaths in literature and media . writers often include minced oaths instead of profanity in their writing to avoid offending their audience or incurring censorship . the term context art ( german : kontextkunst ) was introduced through the seminal exhibition and an accompanying publication kontext kunst . the art of the 90s curated by peter weibel at the neue galerie im künstlerhaus graz ( austria ) in 1993 ( 02.10.–07.11.1993 ) . in the creative arts and scientific literature , an acknowledgment ( british english : acknowledgement ) is an expression of a gratitude for assistance in creating an original work . receiving credit by way of acknowledgment rather than authorship indicates that the person or organization did not have a direct hand in producing the work in question , but may have contributed funding , criticism , or encouragement to the author(s ) . various schemes exist for classifying acknowledgments ; cronin et al . give the following six categories : moral support financial support editorial support presentational support instrumental/technical support conceptual support , or peer interactive communication ( pic ) apart from citation , which is not usually considered to be an acknowledgment , acknowledgment of conceptual support is widely considered to be the most important for identifying intellectual debt . some acknowledgments of financial support , on the other hand , may simply be legal formalities imposed by the granting institution . occasionally , bits of science humor can also be found in acknowledgments . there have been some attempts to extract bibliometric indices from the acknowledgments section ( also called " acknowledgments paratext " ) of research papers to evaluate the impact of the acknowledged individuals , sponsors and funding agencies . the " culture of popular laughter " is a cultural-historical term coined by the literary critic mikhail bakhtin in his book rabelais and his world ( 1965 ) . this studied popular culture in renaissance europe through the themes of françois rabelais ' book gargantua and pantagruel ( 1532–64 ) . the idea of the culture of popular laughter combines two literary ideas developed by bakhtin in the same work : " grotesque realism " and " carnivalesque " which examined , respectively , the celebration of primary needs and the idea of carnival in which social norms were subverted . the culture of popular laughter was originally formulated based on the writings of rabelais , but has also been applied in the interpretation of peasant scenes painted by pieter bruegel the elder and his descendants . the example has also been applied to japanese society . the smoky mountain opry theater ( formerly known as the miracle theater and louise mandrell theater ) was a theater established in 1997 in pigeon forge , tennessee , united states . " the great wall of china " ( original title " beim bau der chinesischen mauer " , literally at the construction of the great wall of china ) is a short story by franz kafka . while written in 1917 , it was not published until 1930 , seven years after his death . its first publication occurred in der morgen , a german literary magazine . a year later , max brod included it in beim bau der chinesischen mauer , the first posthumous collection of short stories by franz kafka . contained within the story is a parable that was separately published as " a message from the emperor " ( " eine kaiserliche botschaft " ) in 1919 in the collection ein landarzt ( a country doctor ) . some sub-themes of the story include why the wall was built piecemeal ( in small sections in many different places ) , the relationship of the chinese with the past and the present and the emperor's imperceptible presence . the story is told in the first person by an older man from a southern province . the first english translation , by willa and edwin muir , was published by martin secker in london in 1933 . it appeared in the great wall of china . stories and reflections ( new york city : schocken books , 1946 ) . artistic freedom ( or freedom of artistic expression ) can be defined as " the freedom to imagine , create and distribute diverse cultural expressions free of governmental censorship , political interference or the pressures of non-state actors . " generally , artistic freedom describes the extent of independence artists obtain to create art freely . moreover , artistic freedom concerns " the rights of citizens to access artistic expressions and take part in cultural life—and thus [ represents ] one of the key issues for democracy . " the extent of freedom indispensable to create art freely differs regarding the existence or nonexistence of national instruments established to protect , to promote , to control or to censor artists and their creative expressions . this is why universal , regional and national legal provisions have been installed to guarantee the right to freedom of expression in general and of artistic expression in particular . in 2013 , ms farida shaheed , united nations special rapporteur to the human rights council , presented her " report in the field of cultural rights : the right to freedom of expression and creativity " providing a comprehensive study of the status quo of , and specifically the limitations and challenges to , artistic freedom worldwide . in this study , artistic freedom " was put forward as a basic human right that went beyond the ' right to create ' or the ' right to participate in cultural life ' . " it stresses the range of fundamental freedoms indispensable for artistic expression and creativity , e.g . the freedoms of movement and association . " the state of artistic freedom " is an integral report published by arts censorship monitor freemuse on an annual basis . art/media was a social sculpture project in the form of series of socio-political public art events that took place in 1986 in albuquerque and santa fe new mexico . this groundbreaking artist forum featured artworks presented to the public through the mass media in a series of artist-designed billboards , television , radio and print media , and in museum exhibitions , a lecture series , and performance art series . through this extended format , the artwork and ideas of contemporary artists were made accessible to a large public audience outside of the traditional art audience . social artistry is the attempt to address or recognize a particular social issue using art and creativity . social artists are people who use creative skills to work with people or organizations in their community to affect change . while a traditional artist uses their creative skills to express their take on the world , a social artist puts their skills to use to help promote and improve communities . thus , the main aim of a social artist is to improve society as a whole and to help other people find their own means of creative expression . social artists may address issues such as youth alienation or the breakdown of communities . most commonly , social artists will address these problems by helping people express themselves and find their voice , or by bringing people together and using art to help them to foster an understanding of each other . social artistry can incorporate several different art forms including theatre , poetry , music and visual art . findings from 2013 confirm the shift from individual expression to community engagement , or " from autonomous to socially engaged . " lingo and tepper cite several examples : contemporary artists " see themselves as educators , social workers , policy actors , and health providers ( lena &  & cornfield , 2008 ; simonds , 2013 ; throsby &  & zednik , 2011 ) nick rabkin writes " more arts graduates end up in education than in any other occupation " ( 2013 ) social practice artists " freely blur the lines among object making , performance , political activism , community organizing , environmentalism and investigative journalism , creating a deeply participatory art that often flourishes outside the gallery and museum system " events from the year 1532 in art . social practice is a theory within psychology that seeks to determine the link between practice and context within social situations . emphasized as a commitment to change , social practice occurs in two forms : activity and inquiry . most often applied within the context of human development , social practice involves knowledge production and the theorization and analysis of both institutional and intervention practices . hollyoaks is a british soap opera which originally began airing on channel 4 on 23 october 1995 . it was created by phil redmond , who had previously conceived the soap opera brookside . from 2005 to 2023 , episodes have aired on sister channel e4 a day prior to their broadcast on channel 4 . in 2023 , hollyoaks was removed from channel 4's early evening schedule , but remains on e4 and channel 4's on demand service with episodes now uploaded to youtube . at its inception , the soap was targeted towards an adolescent and young adult audience but it has since broadened its appeal to all age groups . hollyoaks has covered various taboo subjects rarely seen on british television , for which it has received numerous awards . it has won the award for best british soap twice , in 2014 and 2019 ; its first win broke the 15-year tie between rival soap operas eastenders and coronation street . beginning with a cast of 15 characters , it now has 37 regular cast members . the longest-serving actor is nick pickard , who has portrayed tony hutchinson since the first episode . photography &  & culture is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal , published by taylor &  & francis . it was founded in 2008 by val williams ( university of the arts london , uk ) and was initially published triannually by berg publishers and then by bloomsbury publishing until 2015 . photography &  & culture’s editors-in-chief are erina duganne ( texas state university , usa ) , sarah parsons ( york university , canada ) , gil pasternak ( de montfort university , photographic history research centre , uk ) , and yunchang yang ( peking university , china ) . the covid-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the performing arts , mirroring its impacts across all arts sectors . due to physical distancing requirements and closure of the physical venues , curtailing not only public performances but also rehearsals , many performing arts institutions attempted to adapt by offering new ( or newly expanded ) digital services . in particular this resulted in the free online streaming of previously recorded performances of many companies – especially orchestral performances and plays – lists of which were collated by journalists as well as bespoke crowdsourcing projects .