technology management refers to the integrated planning , design , optimization , operation and control of technological products , processes and services , in order to manage of the use of technology for human advantage . it contains a number of management disciplines that allow organizations to manage their technological fundamentals to benefit their customers . the role of the technology management function in an organization is to understand the value of certain technology for the organization and for the customer , and to identify when it is better to invest in technology development and when to withdraw . technology management refers to the integrated planning , design , optimization , operation and control of technological products , processes and services , in order to manage of the use of technology for human advantage . it contains a number of management disciplines that allow organizations to manage their technological fundamentals to benefit their customers . the role of the technology management function in an organization is to understand the value of certain technology for the organization and for the customer , and to identify when it is better to invest in technology development and when to withdraw . robotic control is the system that contributes to the movement of robots . this involves the mechanical aspects and programmable systems that makes it possible to control robots . robotics can be controlled by various means including manual , wireless , semi-autonomous ( a mix of fully automatic and wireless control ) , and fully autonomous ( using artificial intelligence ) . underwater acoustic communication is a technique of sending and receiving messages in water . there are several ways of employing such communication but the most common is by using hydrophones . underwater communication is difficult due to factors such as multi-path propagation , time variations of the channel , small available bandwidth and strong signal attenuation , especially over long ranges . compared to terrestrial communication , underwater communication has low data rates because it uses acoustic waves instead of electromagnetic waves . at the beginning of the 20th century some ships communicated by underwater bells as well as using the system for navigation . submarine signals were at the time competitive with the primitive maritime radionavigation . the later fessenden oscillator allowed communication with submarines . virtual environment software refers to any software , program or system that implements , manages and controls multiple virtual environment instances ( self definition ) . the software is installed within an organization's existing it infrastructure and controlled from within the organization itself . from a central interface , the software creates an interactive and immersive experience for administrators and users . the lg internet digital dios ( also known as r-s73ct ) is an internet refrigerator released by lg electronics in june 2000 . the technology is the result of a project that started in 1997 and staffed by a team of 55 researchers with a budget cost of 15 billion won ( us$49.2 million ) . technology management refers to the integrated planning , design , optimization , operation and control of technological products , processes and services , in order to manage of the use of technology for human advantage . it contains a number of management disciplines that allow organizations to manage their technological fundamentals to benefit their customers . the role of the technology management function in an organization is to understand the value of certain technology for the organization and for the customer , and to identify when it is better to invest in technology development and when to withdraw . entertainment technology is the discipline of using manufactured or created components to enhance or make possible any sort of entertainment experience . because entertainment categories are so broad , and because entertainment models the world in many ways , the types of implemented technology are derived from a variety of sources . thus , in theatre , for example , entertainment technology practitioners must be able to design and construct scenery , install electrical systems , build clothing , use motors if there is scenery automation , and provide plumbing ( if functioning kitchen fixtures are required , or if " singing in the rain " ) . in this way , the entertainment technology field intersects with most other types of technology . entertainment technology helps people relax and enjoy some free time . the latest technology has revolutionized daily entertainment . old ways such as recording on records , tapes , and cds , have made music more accessible across the world . movies are brought into living rooms through photography , film , and video . with the emergence of computer technology , ways of being entertained have been optimized greatly . many households are now having computers , consoles , or any other kind of hand-holding computer game . the diversity and complexity of entertainment technology will bring endless joy and convenience to people's spare time . traditionally , entertainment technology is derived from theatrical stagecraft , and stagecraft is an important subset of the discipline . however , the rise of new types and venues for entertainment , as well as rapidly advancing technological development , has increased the range and scope of its practice . in animation and game design , the phrase " entertainment technology " refers to entertainment experiences made possible by the advent of primarily computer-mediated digital technologies . product ecosystem theory is an emerging theory that describes how the design of manufactured products evolves over time and draws parallels with how species evolve within a natural ecosystem . fundamental to this theory is that manufactured product lines respond to external threats and opportunities in much the same way that species respond to threats and opportunities . competition and other environmental pressures may cause a species to become extinct . an example of the parallel in consumer products is the way in which the typewriter became displaced ( or extinct ) due to pressures from the personal computer . products lines can be seen to incrementally change and branch over time following the principle of phyletic gradualism . or they can be seen to have periods of stasis followed by disruptive innovation . this follows the principle of punctuated equilibrium . ecosystem theory provides a conceptual framework that helps designers and others understand the mechanisms underpinning product innovation in a tangible and visual way . technology change is one of the environmental variables that provide both opportunity and threat for products in much the same way that environmental variables such as climate provide opportunity and threat for species . evaluating designed products from this perspective is useful as it shows that the value of a product is not contained entirely within the product itself . value is also obtained from the rest of the ecosystem . c to hdl tools convert c language or c-like computer code into a hardware description language ( hdl ) such as vhdl or verilog . the converted code can then be synthesized and translated into a hardware device such as a field-programmable gate array . compared to software , equivalent designs in hardware consume less power ( yielding higher performance per watt ) and execute faster with lower latency , more parallelism and higher throughput . however , system design and functional verification in a hardware description language can be tedious and time-consuming , so systems engineers often write critical modules in hdl and other modules in a high-level language and synthesize these into hdl through c to hdl or high-level synthesis tools . c to rtl is another name for this methodology . rtl refers to the register transfer level representation of a program necessary to implement it in logic .