in the context of free and open-source software , proprietary software only available as a binary executable is referred to as a blob or binary blob . the term usually refers to a device driver module loaded into the kernel of an open-source operating system , and is sometimes also applied to code running outside the kernel , such as system firmware images , microcode updates , or userland programs . the term blob was first used in database management systems to describe a collection of binary data stored as a single entity . when computer hardware vendors provide complete technical documentation for their products , operating system developers are able to write hardware device drivers to be included in the operating system kernels . however , some vendors , such as nvidia , do not provide complete documentation for some of their products and instead provide binary-only drivers . this practice is most common for accelerated graphics drivers , wireless networking devices , and hardware raid controllers . most notably , closed-source drivers are very uncommon for non-wireless network interface controllers , which can almost always be configured via standard utilities ( like ifconfig ) out of the box ; theo de raadt of openbsd attributes this to the work done by a single freebsd developer.
robotic control is the system that contributes to the movement of robots . this involves the mechanical aspects and programmable systems that makes it possible to control robots . robotics can be controlled by various means including manual , wireless , semi-autonomous ( a mix of fully automatic and wireless control ) , and fully autonomous ( using artificial intelligence).
the attitude indicator ( ai ) , formerly known as the gyro horizon or artificial horizon , is a flight instrument that informs the pilot of the aircraft orientation relative to earth's horizon , and gives an immediate indication of the smallest orientation change . the miniature aircraft and horizon bar mimic the relationship of the aircraft relative to the actual horizon . it is a primary instrument for flight in instrument meteorological conditions . attitude is always presented to users in the unit degrees ( ° ) . however , inner workings such as sensors , data and calculations may use a mix of degrees and radians , as scientists and engineers may prefer to work with radians.
mobile cloud storage is a form of cloud storage that is accessible on mobile devices such as laptops , tablets , and smartphones . mobile cloud storage providers offer services that allow the user to create and organize files , folders , music , and photos , similar to other cloud computing models . services are used by both individuals and companies . most cloud file storage providers offer limited free use but charge for additional storage once the free limit is exceeded . these costs are usually charged as a monthly subscription rate and have different rates depending on the amount of storage desired . in 2018 , cloud services revenue was about $ 182.4 billion and in 2022 it is projected to grow to $ 331.2 billion . the cloud storage industry was projected to grow 17.2 percent in 2019 ( costello , 2019).
closed-loop geothermal systems ( also known as “advanced geothermal systems” or “ags” ) are a type of engineered geothermal energy system containing subsurface working fluid that is heated in a hot rock reservoir without direct contact with rock pores and fractures . : instead , the subsurface working fluid stays inside a closed loop of deeply buried pipes that conduct earth’s heat . closed-loop geothermal systems are one of the prominent categories of next-generation geothermal systems in development today . like all geothermal systems , closed-loop geothermal systems provide renewable energy , and primarily operate as baseload resources that produce energy at a constant rate . unlike conventional geothermal energy plants , closed-loop geothermal plants can be placed anywhere in the world , depending only on the depth of the hot rock resource . closed-loop geothermal projects are under development in the united states , canada , japan , and germany.
responsiveness as a concept of computer science refers to the specific ability of a system or functional unit to complete assigned tasks within a given time . for example , it would refer to the ability of an artificial intelligence system to understand and carry out its tasks in a timely fashion . in the reactive principle , responsiveness is one of the fundamental criteria along with resilience , elasticity and message driven . it is one of the criteria under the principle of robustness ( from a v principle ) . the other three are observability , recoverability , and task conformance.
brilliant labs is a singapore-based technology company that produces open source eyewear featuring artificial intelligence ( ai ) . brilliant labs was founded in 2019 in hong kong by bobak tavangar , a former apple program lead . tavangar said he saw the potential for integrating the capabilities of artificial intelligence into glasses to give consumers " visual superpowers . " the goal was to use an open source platform for development that would allow for creators to access the company's code and create new apps for devices . in january 2024 , the company introduced its first product , frame , which were glasses that looked similar to those worn by apple co-founder steve jobs . they were designed to be indistinguishable from regular eyeglasses and would be worn by those who wore prescription lenses . the glasses were enabled for audio with a voice assistant called noa and featured an ai search engine called perplexity . they came at a time when other companies introduced similar products , like ai pin from humane , r1 from rabbit , or vision pro from apple , and came after other products , like google glass or hololens from microsoft did not gain traction . prior to this , the company offered the monocle , an augmented reality ( ar ) lens that attached to traditional glasses , and which also used open source software . =  = references = = 
from 1946 through 1993 , thirteen countries used ocean disposal or ocean dumping as a method to dispose of nuclear/radioactive waste with an approximation of 200,000 tons sourcing mainly from the medical , research and nuclear industry . the waste materials included both liquids and solids housed in various containers , as well as reactor vessels , with and without spent or damaged nuclear fuel . since 1993 , ocean disposal has been banned by international treaties . ( london convention ( 1972 ) , basel convention , marpol 73/78 ) . there has only been the disposal of low level radioactive waste ( llw ) thus far in terms of ocean dumping as high level waste has been strictly prohibited . ocean floor disposal ( or sub-seabed disposal)—a more deliberate method of delivering radioactive waste to the ocean floor and depositing it into the seabed—was studied by the united kingdom and sweden , but never implemented.
technology strategy ( information technology strategy or it strategy ) is the overall plan which consists of objectives , principles and tactics relating to use of technologies within a particular organization . such strategies primarily focus on the technologies themselves and in some cases the people who directly manage those technologies . the strategy can be implied from the organization's behaviors towards technology decisions , and may be written down in a document . the strategy includes the formal vision that guides the acquisition , allocation , and management of it resources so it can help fulfill the organizational objectives . other generations of technology-related strategies primarily focus on : the efficiency of the company's spending on technology ; how people , for example the organization's customers and employees , exploit technologies in ways that create value for the organization ; on the full integration of technology-related decisions with the company's strategies and operating plans , such that no separate technology strategy exists other than the de facto strategic principle that the organization does not need or have a discrete ' technology strategy ' . a technology strategy has traditionally been expressed in a document that explains how technology should be utilized as part of an organization's overall corporate strategy and each business strategy . in the case of it , the strategy is usually formulated by a group of representatives from both the business and from it . often the information technology strategy is led by an organization's chief technology officer ( cto ) or equivalent . accountability varies for an organization's strategies for other classes of technology . although many companies write an overall business plan each year , a technology strategy may cover developments somewhere between three and five years into the future . the united states identified the need to implement a technology strategy in order to restore the country's competitive edge . in 1983 project socrates , a us defense intelligence agency program , was established to develop a national technology strategy policy.
during the yuan dynasty ( 1271–1368 ) of china , many scientific and technological advancements were made in areas such as mathematics , medicine , printing technology , and gunpowder warfare.
omar sultan al olama ( arabic : عمر سلطان العلماء ; born 16 february 1990 ) is minister of state for artificial intelligence , digital economy , and remote work applications in the united arab emirates . he was appointed in october 2017 by vice president and prime minister of the uae and ruler of dubai , sheikh mohammed bin rashid al maktoum . the uae was the first country to appoint a minister for artificial intelligence.
mobile cloud storage is a form of cloud storage that is accessible on mobile devices such as laptops , tablets , and smartphones . mobile cloud storage providers offer services that allow the user to create and organize files , folders , music , and photos , similar to other cloud computing models . services are used by both individuals and companies . most cloud file storage providers offer limited free use but charge for additional storage once the free limit is exceeded . these costs are usually charged as a monthly subscription rate and have different rates depending on the amount of storage desired . in 2018 , cloud services revenue was about $ 182.4 billion and in 2022 it is projected to grow to $ 331.2 billion . the cloud storage industry was projected to grow 17.2 percent in 2019 ( costello , 2019).
a gate in cytometry is a set of value limits ( boundaries ) that serve to isolate a specific group of cytometric events from a large set . gates can be defined by discrimination analysis , or can simply be drawn around a given set of data points on a printout and then converted to a computer-useful form . gates can be implemented with a physical blinder . gates may be used either to selectively gather data or to segregate data for analysis.
a glossary of terms relating to automotive design . some terms may be found at car classification.
electromagnetically-enhanced physical vapor deposition ( epvd ) is coating technique developed by paradigm shift technologies , inc . which uses electromagnetic fields to improve traditional physical vapor deposition , particularly in high-stress applications like gun barrel coatings.
centre for digitization of indigenous african languages , cdial is a technology company focused on artificial intelligence ( ai ) for the enterprise , specializing in language models in low-resourced languages , research , and deployment . the organization was founded in 2021 and is headquartered in los angeles , us with offices in lagos , nigeria . in 2023 , cdial launched its technology , indigenius mobile , a conversational ai platform for multilingual communication and interaction . cdial also released its multilingual smart keyboard designed to enable communication in 180 african languages and allow users to communicate in their native languages . in may 2023 , cdial unveiled a dictionary that translates modern words into native languages covering new existing words not contained in native dictionaries.
gigabit multimedia serial link , commonly referred to as gmsl , is a serial link technology that is used for video distribution in cars . it was developed by maxim integrated . maxim integrated was acquired by analog devices in 2021 . gmsl is an asymmetric , full duplex serdes technology -  - which means that it transports data at a high rate in the downlink ( or forward ) direction , while simultaneously transporting a lower data rate in the uplink ( or reverse ) direction . it transports power , bidirectional control data , ethernet , bidirectional audio and multiple streams of unidirectional video simultaneously over a single coaxial cable or shielded twisted pair cable . a gmsl serializer receives video from a standard digital video interface such as hdmi , displayport , camera serial interface ( csi-2 ) or display serial interface ( dsi ) over a cable up to 15 meter in length . the data is received by a deserializer that outputs it on another standard digital video interface . gmsl video transport may be unprotected or encrypted using hdcp.
electromagnetically-enhanced physical vapor deposition ( epvd ) is coating technique developed by paradigm shift technologies , inc . which uses electromagnetic fields to improve traditional physical vapor deposition , particularly in high-stress applications like gun barrel coatings.
robotic control is the system that contributes to the movement of robots . this involves the mechanical aspects and programmable systems that makes it possible to control robots . robotics can be controlled by various means including manual , wireless , semi-autonomous ( a mix of fully automatic and wireless control ) , and fully autonomous ( using artificial intelligence).
visual technology is the engineering discipline dealing with visual representation .