vikings of middle england ( also known as tÿrslið ) is a viking re-enactment and living history group based in leicester , uk . they portray through historical costume and activities the people who lived , travelled to and invaded britain in the viking-age . tÿrslið's aim is to entertain and educate an audience using a mix of drama , pageant , special effects , historical context , demonstration and audience participation . tÿrslið are one of the few groups to display icelandic horses in a viking-age presentation , with horses and riders from oakfield icelandic horses joining them at events . as well as arena-displays , vikings of middle england erect a living history encampment where members demonstrate viking-age crafts such as blacksmithing or where the audience can have a go at certain activities such as coin-striking . the organisation once owned a scale replica longship called ratatosk . vikings of middle england perform at events throughout the uk , including at places of historical interest such as rockingham castle , carnivals , festivals and local events , and also at other visitor attractions such as conkers . vikings of middle england also provide displays and resources for education , at schools and for seminars . the organisation has lent expertise and kit to researchers for books , websites , tv and film productions , and conferences while also publishing articles on their website suitable for uk key stage 2 pupils . vikings of middle england's membership is mostly based in the city of leicester . however , some members hail from the surrounding east midlands and further afield . a number of other viking re-enactment groups have been started by former members . history ( derived from ancient greek ἱστορία ( historía ) ' inquiry ; knowledge acquired by investigation ' ) is the systematic study and documentation of the human past . history is an academic discipline which uses a narrative to describe , examine , question , and analyse past events , and investigate their patterns of cause and effect . historians debate which narrative best explains an event , as well as the significance of different causes and effects . historians debate the nature of history as an end in itself , and its usefulness in giving perspective on the problems of the present . the period of events before the invention of writing systems is considered prehistory . " history " is an umbrella term comprising past events as well as the memory , discovery , collection , organization , presentation , and interpretation of these events . historians seek knowledge of the past using historical sources such as written documents , oral accounts or traditional oral histories , art and material artifacts , and ecological markers . stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding king arthur ) , are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends . history differs from myth in that it is supported by verifiable evidence . however , ancient cultural influences have helped create variant interpretations of the nature of history , which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today . the modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and certain topical or thematic elements of historical investigation . history is taught as a part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of history is a major discipline in universities . herodotus , a 5th-century bce greek historian , is often considered the " father of history " , as one of the first historians in the western tradition , though he has been criticized as the " father of lies " . along with his contemporary thucydides , he helped form the foundations for the modern study of past events and societies . their works continue to be read today , and the gap between the culture-focused herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing . in east asia a state chronicle , the spring and autumn annals , was reputed to date from as early as 722 bce , though only 2nd-century bce texts have survived . the title " father of history " has also been attributed , in their respective societies , to sima qian , ibn khaldun , and kenneth dike . national memory is a form of collective memory defined by shared experiences and culture . it is an integral part to national identity . it represents one specific form of cultural memory , which makes an essential contribution to national group cohesion . historically national communities have drawn upon commemorative ceremonies and monuments , myths and rituals , glorified individuals , objects , and events in their own history to produce a common narrative . according to lorraine ryan , national memory is based on the public's reception of national historic narratives and the ability of people to affirm the legitimacy of these narratives . marawah ( arabic : مَرَوَح , romanized : marawaḥ ) is a low-lying island off the coast of the western region of the emirate of abu dhabi , the united arab emirates . history ( derived from ancient greek ἱστορία ( historía ) ' inquiry ; knowledge acquired by investigation ' ) is the systematic study and documentation of the human past . history is an academic discipline which uses a narrative to describe , examine , question , and analyse past events , and investigate their patterns of cause and effect . historians debate which narrative best explains an event , as well as the significance of different causes and effects . historians debate the nature of history as an end in itself , and its usefulness in giving perspective on the problems of the present . the period of events before the invention of writing systems is considered prehistory . " history " is an umbrella term comprising past events as well as the memory , discovery , collection , organization , presentation , and interpretation of these events . historians seek knowledge of the past using historical sources such as written documents , oral accounts or traditional oral histories , art and material artifacts , and ecological markers . stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding king arthur ) , are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends . history differs from myth in that it is supported by verifiable evidence . however , ancient cultural influences have helped create variant interpretations of the nature of history , which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today . the modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and certain topical or thematic elements of historical investigation . history is taught as a part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of history is a major discipline in universities . herodotus , a 5th-century bce greek historian , is often considered the " father of history " , as one of the first historians in the western tradition , though he has been criticized as the " father of lies " . along with his contemporary thucydides , he helped form the foundations for the modern study of past events and societies . their works continue to be read today , and the gap between the culture-focused herodotus and the military-focused thucydides remains a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing . in east asia a state chronicle , the spring and autumn annals , was reputed to date from as early as 722 bce , though only 2nd-century bce texts have survived . the title " father of history " has also been attributed , in their respective societies , to sima qian , ibn khaldun , and kenneth dike . this glossary of history is a list of definitions of terms and concepts relevant to the study of history and its related fields and sub-disciplines , including both prehistory and the period of human history . " ratio scripta " , or " written reason " , was the assessment of roman law commonly held in europe during the medieval period . it emerged during the revival of roman law , serving as the basis of the ius commune . it was also used to evaluate the validity of leges propria or the local customs and positive legislation . ratio scripta is also used to denote the popular opinion of roman law held during the medieval period . it could also mean the written opinion of a tribunal explaining its decision over a case . ratio scripta was the basis of the popularity of the roman law in medieval europe . according to scholars , the roman law was widely adopted because ratio or reason meant the law . in france , for instance , the roman law is often invoked as a standard and as a reference to the law in general . =  = references =  = northern rio grande national heritage area is a federally designated national heritage area in the u.s . state of new mexico . the national heritage area includes a section of the upper rio grande valley that has been inhabited by the puebloan peoples since the early pre-columbian era . three counties , santa fe , taos , and rio arriba are included in the designated national heritage area . the northern rio grande national heritage area was authorized in 2006 by public law 109-338 . serse ( italian pronunciation : [ ˈsɛrse ] ; english title : xerxes ; hwv 40 ) is an opera seria in three acts by george frideric handel . it was first performed in london on 15 april 1738 . the italian libretto was adapted by an unknown hand from that by silvio stampiglia ( 1664–1725 ) for an earlier opera of the same name by giovanni bononcini in 1694 . stampiglia's libretto was itself based on one by nicolò minato ( ca.1627–1698 ) that was set by francesco cavalli in 1654 . the opera is set in persia ( modern-day iran ) about 470 bc and is very loosely based upon xerxes i of persia . serse , originally sung by a mezzo-soprano castrato , is now usually performed by a female mezzo-soprano or countertenor . the opening aria , " ombra mai fu " , sung by xerxes to a plane tree ( platanus orientalis ) , is set to one of handel's best-known melodies , and is often known as handel's " largo " ( despite being marked " larghetto " in the score ) . dawid moryc apfelbaum , sometimes also known as mieczysław dawid apfelbaum , is a disputed soldier who some contend was incorrectly credited as the commander of the jewish military union that fought in the 1943 warsaw ghetto uprising , during the second world war . it is claimed that he died on 28 april 1943 . some allege he also served as a lieutenant of the polish armed forces prior to the conflict . his existence was disproven by historians in the 2010s . apfelbaum was first attested in 1948 , in statements by henryk iwański , and later also mentioned by tadeusz bednarczyk , władysław zajdler , and kałmen mendelson , all of whom have claimed to have fought in the warsaw ghetto uprising in 1943 under apfelbaum's command , and to be members of the polish home army . their statements have been found by historians to be false , and their actual participation in the conflict , as well as the existence of apfelbaum , was questioned .