there is no consensus on vincent van gogh's health . his death in 1890 is generally accepted to have been a suicide . many competing hypotheses have been advanced as to possible medical conditions that he may have had . these include epilepsy , bipolar disorder , borderline personality disorder , sunstroke , acute intermittent porphyria , lead poisoning , ménière's disease , schizophrenia , schizoaffective disorder , substance use disorder , non-suicidal self-injury disorder ( " self-harm " ) , and a possible anxiety disorder . a microlife is a unit of risk representing half an hour change of life expectancy . discussed by david spiegelhalter and alejandro leiva , and also used by lin et al . for decision analysis , microlives are intended as a simple way of communicating the impact of a lifestyle or environmental risk factor , based on the associated daily proportional effect on expected length of life . similar to the micromort ( one in a million probability of death ) the microlife is intended for " rough but fair comparisons between the sizes of chronic risks " . this is to avoid the biasing effects of describing risks in relative hazard ratios , converting them into somewhat tangible units . similarly they bring long-term future risks into the here-and-now as a gain or loss of time . " a daily loss or gain of 30 minutes can be termed a microlife , because 1 000 000 half hours ( 57 years ) roughly corresponds to a lifetime of adult exposure . " the microlife exploits the fact that for small hazard ratios the change in life expectancy is roughly linear . they are by necessity rough estimates , based on averages over population and lifetime . effects of individual variability , short-term or changing habits , and causal factors are not taken into account . polyuria (  ) is excessive or an abnormally large production or passage of urine ( greater than 2.5 l or 3 l over 24 hours in adults ) . increased production and passage of urine may also be termed as diuresis . polyuria often appears in conjunction with polydipsia ( increased thirst ) , though it is possible to have one without the other , and the latter may be a cause or an effect . primary polydipsia may lead to polyuria . polyuria is usually viewed as a symptom or sign of another disorder ( not a disease by itself ) , but it can be classed as a disorder , at least when its underlying causes are not clear . sleep tracking is the process of monitoring a person's sleep , most commonly through measuring inactivity and movement . a device that tracks a person's sleep is called a sleep tracker . sleep tracking may be beneficial in diagnosing sleep disorders . as sleep abnormalities are also symptoms of mental illness or relapsing psychotic disorders , it may also be beneficial in diagnosing mental disorders and psychotic disorders as well . polysomnography , the " gold standard " method for sleep tracking that requires attaching electrodes and monitors to the patient as they sleep , was developed in the late 1950s . it is considered by sleep researchers as providing the most accurate sleep data , however , it is an expensive , often uncomfortable experience for patients with findings that may be skewed due to the " first night effect " . the actigraphy , a sleep-tracking device that is worn on one's wrist , was developed in the early 1970s and uses motion sensors . it is considered the " silver standard " method of sleep tracking , is comparably less expensive than a polysomnograph , and easier to incorporate into a patient's every day schedule as it looks and feels like a wrist-watch . however , it cannot track sleep-staging , is still generally expensive , and still requires a specialist to analyze the data it collects . sleep trackers are now available to consumers in many different forms such as smartphones , smartwatches , fitness trackers , and other wearable devices . compared to a polysomonograph or an actigraph , consumer sleep-tracking devices are already incorporated into the day-to-day lives of patients and are the most cost-effective sleep-tracking method for patients . however , consumer sleep-tracking devices as they currently are , do not provide reliable sleep data for consumers or healthcare professionals . additionally , consumer sleep tracking devices do not share their sleep tracking methods or algorithms with the public and may unintentionally undermine the sleep recommendations of health professionals or the need to seek professional help regarding improving sleep quality . sleep tracking is the process of monitoring a person's sleep , most commonly through measuring inactivity and movement . a device that tracks a person's sleep is called a sleep tracker . sleep tracking may be beneficial in diagnosing sleep disorders . as sleep abnormalities are also symptoms of mental illness or relapsing psychotic disorders , it may also be beneficial in diagnosing mental disorders and psychotic disorders as well . polysomnography , the " gold standard " method for sleep tracking that requires attaching electrodes and monitors to the patient as they sleep , was developed in the late 1950s . it is considered by sleep researchers as providing the most accurate sleep data , however , it is an expensive , often uncomfortable experience for patients with findings that may be skewed due to the " first night effect " . the actigraphy , a sleep-tracking device that is worn on one's wrist , was developed in the early 1970s and uses motion sensors . it is considered the " silver standard " method of sleep tracking , is comparably less expensive than a polysomnograph , and easier to incorporate into a patient's every day schedule as it looks and feels like a wrist-watch . however , it cannot track sleep-staging , is still generally expensive , and still requires a specialist to analyze the data it collects . sleep trackers are now available to consumers in many different forms such as smartphones , smartwatches , fitness trackers , and other wearable devices . compared to a polysomonograph or an actigraph , consumer sleep-tracking devices are already incorporated into the day-to-day lives of patients and are the most cost-effective sleep-tracking method for patients . however , consumer sleep-tracking devices as they currently are , do not provide reliable sleep data for consumers or healthcare professionals . additionally , consumer sleep tracking devices do not share their sleep tracking methods or algorithms with the public and may unintentionally undermine the sleep recommendations of health professionals or the need to seek professional help regarding improving sleep quality . single-payer healthcare is a type of universal healthcare , in which the costs of essential healthcare for all residents are covered by a single public system ( hence " single-payer " ) . single-payer systems may contract for healthcare services from private organizations ( as is the case in canada ) or may own and employ healthcare resources and personnel ( as is the case in the united kingdom ) . " single-payer " describes the mechanism by which healthcare is paid for by a single public authority , not a private authority , nor a mix of both . abortion in kenya is prohibited with the exception of certain circumstances including danger to the life and health of the expectant mother , and rape . unsafe abortions are a major cause of deaths and health complications for women in kenya . the therac-25 is a computer-controlled radiation therapy machine produced by atomic energy of canada limited ( aecl ) in 1982 after the therac-6 and therac-20 units ( the earlier units had been produced in partnership with compagnie générale de radiologie ( cgr ) of france ) . the therac-25 was involved in at least six accidents between 1985 and 1987 , in which some patients were given massive overdoses of radiation . : 425 because of concurrent programming errors ( also known as race conditions ) , it sometimes gave its patients radiation doses that were hundreds of times greater than normal , resulting in death or serious injury . these accidents highlighted the dangers of software control of safety-critical systems . the therac-25 has become a standard case study in health informatics , software engineering , and computer ethics . it highlights the dangers of engineer overconfidence : 428 after the engineers dismissed end-user reports , leading to severe consequences . there is empirical evidence of the causal impact of social relationships on health . the social support theory suggests that relationships might promote health especially by promoting adaptive behavior or regulating the stress response . troubled relationships as well as loneliness and social exclusion may have negative consequences on health . neurosciences of health investigate the neuronal circuits implicated in the context of both social connection and disconnection . the army deafness claims were a series of personal injury claims taken from 1992 to 2002 against the irish department of defence by members of the irish defence forces for noise-induced hearing loss resulting from exposure to loud noise during military operations and training . the claims stated that the government had failed to provide adequate ear protectors during firing exercises , as was required under regulations dating back to the 1950s . about 16,500 claims were made , resulting in payouts totalling about €300m . polyuria (  ) is excessive or an abnormally large production or passage of urine ( greater than 2.5 l or 3 l over 24 hours in adults ) . increased production and passage of urine may also be termed as diuresis . polyuria often appears in conjunction with polydipsia ( increased thirst ) , though it is possible to have one without the other , and the latter may be a cause or an effect . primary polydipsia may lead to polyuria . polyuria is usually viewed as a symptom or sign of another disorder ( not a disease by itself ) , but it can be classed as a disorder , at least when its underlying causes are not clear . =  = statistics belgium =  = lgbtiq + health australia ( formerly the national lgbti health alliance ) is a peak health organisation for lgbt and intersex organisations in australia . a not-for-profit company , it was established in august 2007 . environment , health and safety ( ehs ) ( or health , safety and environment –hse– , or safety , health and environment –she– ) is an interdisciplinary field focused on the study and implementation of practical aspects environmental protection and safeguard of people's health and safety , especially in an occupational context . it is what organizations must do to make sure that their activities do not cause harm . commonly , quality -  - quality assurance and quality control -  - is adjoined to form hsqe or equivalent initialisms . from a safety standpoint , ehs involves creating organized efforts and procedures for identifying workplace hazards and reducing accidents and exposure to harmful situations and substances . it also includes training of personnel in accident prevention , accident response , emergency preparedness , and use of protective clothing and equipment . from a health standpoint , ehs involves creating the development of safe , high-quality , and environmentally friendly processes , working practices and systemic activities that prevent or reduce the risk of harm to people in general , operators , or patients . from an environmental standpoint , ehs involves creating a systematic approach to complying with environmental regulations , such as managing waste or air emissions all the way to helping site's reduce the carbon footprint . the activities of an ehs working group might focus on : exchange of know-how regarding health , safety and environmental aspects of a material promotion of good working practices , such as post-use material collection for recycling regulatory requirements play an important role in ehs discipline and ehs managers must identify and understand relevant ehs regulations , the implications of which must be communicated to executive management so the company can implement suitable measures . organizations based in the united states are subject to ehs regulations in the code of federal regulations , particularly cfr 29 , 40 , and 49 . still , ehs management is not limited to legal compliance and companies should be encouraged to do more than is required by law , if appropriate . calcium carbimide , sold as the citrate salt under the trade name temposil , is a disulfiram-like medication . its effects are similar to the medication disulfiram ( antabuse ) in that it interferes with the normal metabolism of alcohol by preventing the breakdown of the metabolic byproduct acetaldehyde . the result is that when alcohol is consumed by users of calcium carbimide , they experience severe reactions which include symptoms such as sweating , difficulty breathing , rapid heartbeat , rash , nausea and vomiting , and headache . a recent 9-year study found that incorporation of supervised carbimide and the similar medication , disulfiram , into a comprehensive treatment program resulted in an abstinence rate of over 50 % . temposil was developed by drs . ken ferguson and gordon bell , who tested the medication on themselves . it was patented in 1955 by the alcoholism research foundation of ontario . digital health interventions , or digital healthcare interventions , commonly referenced as dhis in scientific articles , have emerged as a alternative in healthcare that may enable improved health outcomes , increase healthcare delivery , and empower patients . commonly , it offers options to provide treatments , monitor health conditions , assist patients , and enable healthcare professionals to extend their services . health mobile applications have become more popular -  - as mentioned by butcher and hussain , in 2022 , more than 100,000 healthcare mobile applications were offered in apple and google app stores . these interventions may utilise various digital technologies and applications , besides mobile apps and websites , and they may comprehend wearables , biosensors , and internet of things sleep tracking is the process of monitoring a person's sleep , most commonly through measuring inactivity and movement . a device that tracks a person's sleep is called a sleep tracker . sleep tracking may be beneficial in diagnosing sleep disorders . as sleep abnormalities are also symptoms of mental illness or relapsing psychotic disorders , it may also be beneficial in diagnosing mental disorders and psychotic disorders as well . polysomnography , the " gold standard " method for sleep tracking that requires attaching electrodes and monitors to the patient as they sleep , was developed in the late 1950s . it is considered by sleep researchers as providing the most accurate sleep data , however , it is an expensive , often uncomfortable experience for patients with findings that may be skewed due to the " first night effect " . the actigraphy , a sleep-tracking device that is worn on one's wrist , was developed in the early 1970s and uses motion sensors . it is considered the " silver standard " method of sleep tracking , is comparably less expensive than a polysomnograph , and easier to incorporate into a patient's every day schedule as it looks and feels like a wrist-watch . however , it cannot track sleep-staging , is still generally expensive , and still requires a specialist to analyze the data it collects . sleep trackers are now available to consumers in many different forms such as smartphones , smartwatches , fitness trackers , and other wearable devices . compared to a polysomonograph or an actigraph , consumer sleep-tracking devices are already incorporated into the day-to-day lives of patients and are the most cost-effective sleep-tracking method for patients . however , consumer sleep-tracking devices as they currently are , do not provide reliable sleep data for consumers or healthcare professionals . additionally , consumer sleep tracking devices do not share their sleep tracking methods or algorithms with the public and may unintentionally undermine the sleep recommendations of health professionals or the need to seek professional help regarding improving sleep quality . hierarchy of hazard control is a system used in industry to prioritize possible interventions to minimize or eliminate exposure to hazards . it is a widely accepted system promoted by numerous safety organizations . this concept is taught to managers in industry , to be promoted as standard practice in the workplace . it has also been used to inform public policy , in fields such as road safety . various illustrations are used to depict this system , most commonly a triangle . the hazard controls in the hierarchy are , in order of decreasing priority : elimination substitution engineering controls administrative controls personal protective equipment the system is not based on evidence of effectiveness ; rather , it relies on whether the elimination of hazards is possible . eliminating hazards allows workers to be free from the need to recognize and protect themselves against these dangers . substitution is given lower priority than elimination because substitutes may also present hazards . engineering controls depend on a well-functioning system and human behavior , while administrative controls and personal protective equipment are inherently reliant on human actions , making them less reliable . polyuria (  ) is excessive or an abnormally large production or passage of urine ( greater than 2.5 l or 3 l over 24 hours in adults ) . increased production and passage of urine may also be termed as diuresis . polyuria often appears in conjunction with polydipsia ( increased thirst ) , though it is possible to have one without the other , and the latter may be a cause or an effect . primary polydipsia may lead to polyuria . polyuria is usually viewed as a symptom or sign of another disorder ( not a disease by itself ) , but it can be classed as a disorder , at least when its underlying causes are not clear . utility cycling encompasses any cycling done simply as a means of transport rather than as a sport or leisure activity . it is the original and most common type of cycling in the world . cycling mobility is one of the various types of private transport and a major part of individual mobility .