apollo 11 was a spaceflight conducted by the united states from july 16 to july 24 , 1969 . it marked the first time that humans landed on the moon . commander neil armstrong and lunar module pilot buzz aldrin landed the apollo lunar module eagle on july 20 , 1969 , at 20:17 utc , and armstrong became the first person to step onto the moon's surface six hours and 39 minutes later , on july 21 at 02:56 utc . aldrin joined him 19 minutes later , and they spent about two and a quarter hours together exploring the site they had named tranquility base upon landing . armstrong and aldrin collected 47.5 pounds ( 21.5 kg ) of lunar material to bring back to earth as pilot michael collins flew the command module columbia in lunar orbit , and were on the moon's surface for 21 hours , 36 minutes , before lifting off to rejoin columbia . apollo 11 was launched by a saturn v rocket from kennedy space center on merritt island , florida , on july 16 at 13:32 utc , and it was the fifth crewed mission of nasa's apollo program . the apollo spacecraft had three parts : a command module ( cm ) with a cabin for the three astronauts , the only part that returned to earth ; a service module ( sm ) , which supported the command module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen , and water ; and a lunar module ( lm ) that had two stages—a descent stage for landing on the moon and an ascent stage to place the astronauts back into lunar orbit . after being sent to the moon by the saturn v's third stage , the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and traveled for three days until they entered lunar orbit . armstrong and aldrin then moved into eagle and landed in the sea of tranquility on july 20 . the astronauts used eagle's ascent stage to lift off from the lunar surface and rejoin collins in the command module . they jettisoned eagle before they performed the maneuvers that propelled columbia out of the last of its 30 lunar orbits onto a trajectory back to earth . they returned to earth and splashed down in the pacific ocean on july 24 after more than eight days in space . armstrong's first step onto the lunar surface was broadcast on live tv to a worldwide audience . he described the event as " one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . " apollo 11 effectively proved u.s . victory in the space race to demonstrate spaceflight superiority , by fulfilling a national goal proposed in 1961 by president john f . kennedy , " before this decade is out , of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the earth . " scientometrics is a subfield of informetrics that studies quantitative aspects of scholarly literature . major research issues include the measurement of the impact of research papers and academic journals , the understanding of scientific citations , and the use of such measurements in policy and management contexts . in practice there is a significant overlap between scientometrics and other scientific fields such as information systems , information science , science of science policy , sociology of science , and metascience . critics have argued that overreliance on scientometrics has created a system of perverse incentives , producing a publish or perish environment that leads to low-quality research . the dialogue concerning the two chief world systems ( dialogo sopra i due massimi sistemi del mondo ) is a 1632 italian-language book by galileo galilei comparing the copernican system with the traditional ptolemaic system . it was translated into latin as systema cosmicum ( cosmic system ) in 1635 by matthias bernegger . the book was dedicated to galileo's patron , ferdinando ii de ' medici , grand duke of tuscany , who received the first printed copy on february 22 , 1632 . in the copernican system , the earth and other planets orbit the sun , while in the ptolemaic system , everything in the universe circles around the earth . the dialogue was published in florence under a formal license from the inquisition . in 1633 , galileo was found to be " vehemently suspect of heresy " based on the book , which was then placed on the index of forbidden books , from which it was not removed until 1835 ( after the theories it discussed had been permitted in print in 1822 ) . in an action that was not announced at the time , the publication of anything else he had written or ever might write was also banned in catholic countries . conflicts of interest ( cois ) often arise in academic publishing . such conflicts may cause wrongdoing and make it more likely . ethical standards in academic publishing exist to avoid and deal with conflicts of interest , and the field continues to develop new standards . standards vary between journals and are unevenly applied . according to the international committee of medical journal editors , " [ a]uthors have a responsibility to evaluate the integrity , history , practices and reputation of the journals to which they submit manuscripts " . conflicts of interest increase the likelihood of biases arising ; they can harm the quality of research and the public good ( even if disclosed ) . conflicts of interest can involve research sponsors , authors , journals , journal staff , publishers , and peer reviewers . in mathematics , integer factorization is the decomposition of a positive integer into a product of integers . every positive integer greater than 1 is either the product of two or more integer factors greater than 1 , in which case it is called a composite number , or it is not , in which case it is called a prime number . for example , 15 is a composite number because 15 =  = 3 · 5 , but 7 is a prime number because it cannot be decomposed in this way . if one of the factors is composite , it can in turn be written as a product of smaller factors , for example 60 =  = 3 · 20 =  = 3 · ( 5 · 4 ) . continuing this process until every factor is prime is called prime factorization ; the result is always unique up to the order of the factors by the prime factorization theorem . to factorize a small integer n using mental or pen-and-paper arithmetic , the simplest method is trial division : checking if the number is divisible by prime numbers 2 , 3 , 5 , and so on , up to the square root of n . for larger numbers , especially when using a computer , various more sophisticated factorization algorithms are more efficient . a prime factorization algorithm typically involves testing whether each factor is prime each time a factor is found . when the numbers are sufficiently large , no efficient non-quantum integer factorization algorithm is known . however , it has not been proven that such an algorithm does not exist . the presumed difficulty of this problem is important for the algorithms used in cryptography such as rsa public-key encryption and the rsa digital signature . many areas of mathematics and computer science have been brought to bear on the problem , including elliptic curves , algebraic number theory , and quantum computing . not all numbers of a given length are equally hard to factor . the hardest instances of these problems ( for currently known techniques ) are semiprimes , the product of two prime numbers . when they are both large , for instance more than two thousand bits long , randomly chosen , and about the same size ( but not too close , for example , to avoid efficient factorization by fermat's factorization method ) , even the fastest prime factorization algorithms on the fastest computers can take enough time to make the search impractical ; that is , as the number of digits of the integer being factored increases , the number of operations required to perform the factorization on any computer increases drastically . many cryptographic protocols are based on the difficulty of factoring large composite integers or a related problem—for example , the rsa problem . an algorithm that efficiently factors an arbitrary integer would render rsa-based public-key cryptography insecure . the relationship between mathematics and physics has been a subject of study of philosophers , mathematicians and physicists since antiquity , and more recently also by historians and educators . generally considered a relationship of great intimacy , mathematics has been described as " an essential tool for physics " and physics has been described as " a rich source of inspiration and insight in mathematics " . in his work physics , one of the topics treated by aristotle is about how the study carried out by mathematicians differs from that carried out by physicists . considerations about mathematics being the language of nature can be found in the ideas of the pythagoreans : the convictions that " numbers rule the world " and " all is number " , and two millennia later were also expressed by galileo galilei : " the book of nature is written in the language of mathematics " . the following outline is provided as a topical overview of science ; the discipline of science is defined as both the systematic effort of acquiring knowledge through observation , experimentation and reasoning , and the body of knowledge thus acquired , the word " science " derives from the latin word scientia meaning knowledge . a practitioner of science is called a " scientist " . modern science respects objective logical reasoning , and follows a set of core procedures or rules to determine the nature and underlying natural laws of all things , with a scope encompassing the entire universe . these procedures , or rules , are known as the scientific method . parson-naturalists were ministers of religion who also studied natural history . the archetypical parson-naturalist was a priest in the church of england in charge of a country parish , who saw the study of science as an extension of his religious work . the philosophy entailed the belief that god , as the creator of all things , wanted man to understand his creations and thus to study them through scientific techniques . they often collected and preserved natural artefacts such as leaves , flowers , birds ' eggs , birds , insects , and small mammals to classify and study . some wrote books or kept nature diaries . post-vaccination embolic and thrombotic events , termed vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( vitt ) , vaccine-induced prothrombotic immune thrombocytopenia ( vipit ) , thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome ( tts ) , vaccine-induced immune thrombocytopenia and thrombosis ( vitt ) , or vaccine-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenia ( vatt ) , are rare types of blood clotting syndromes that were initially observed in a number of people who had previously received the oxford–astrazeneca covid‑19 vaccine ( azd1222 ) during the covid‑19 pandemic . it was subsequently also described in the janssen covid‑19 vaccine ( johnson &  & johnson ) , leading to the suspension of its use until its safety had been reassessed . on 5 may 2022 the fda posted a bulletin limiting the use of the janssen vaccine to very specific cases due to further reassessment of the risks of tts , although the fda also stated in the same bulletin that the benefits of the vaccine outweigh the risks . in april 2021 , astrazeneca and the european medicines agency ( ema ) updated their information for healthcare professionals about azd1222 , saying it is " considered plausible " that there is a causal relationship between the vaccination and the occurrence of thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia and that , " although such adverse reactions are very rare , they exceeded what would be expected in the general population " . astrazeneca initially denied the link , saying " we do not accept that tts is caused by the vaccine at a generic level " . however , in legal documents filed in february 2024 , astrazeneca finally admitted its vaccine ' can , in very rare cases , cause tts ' . the first voyage of james cook was a discovery expedition to the south pacific ocean , with aims of observing the 1769 transit of venus across the sun and seeking evidence of the alleged southern territories , named by that time as terra australis incognita . the ship chosen for the voyage was hms endeavour . the makeup of the crew during the voyage varied due the high mortality , for which contributed mainly malaria and dysentery , that the crew had contracted in batavia . there was also one occurrence of successful desertion of patrick saunders , who after being disrated , escaped the ship .