dc stephen robin oake , was a police officer serving as an anti-terrorism detective with greater manchester police in the united kingdom who was murdered while attempting to arrest a suspected terrorist in manchester on 14 january 2003 . he was posthumously awarded the queen's gallantry medal.
wellness is a state beyond absence of illness but rather aims to optimize well-being . the notions behind the term share the same roots as the alternative medicine movement , in 19th-century movements in the us and europe that sought to optimize health and to consider the whole person , like new thought , christian science , and lebensreform . ayurveda mentions the concept and also has dedicated a whole speciality for the concept of wellness and maintenance of health . the term wellness has also been misused for pseudoscientific health interventions.
the workplace hazardous materials information system ( whmis ; french : système d'information sur les matières dangereuses utilisées au travail , simdut ) is canada's national workplace hazard communication standard . the key elements of the system , which came into effect on october 31 , 1988 , are cautionary labelling of containers of whmis controlled products , the provision of material safety data sheets ( msdss ) and worker education and site-specific training programs . whmis is an example of synchronization and cooperation amongst canada's federal , provincial and territorial governments . the coordinated approach avoided duplication , inefficiency through loss of scale and the interprovincial trade barriers that would have been created had each province and territory established its own hazard communication system.
the philosophy of healthcare is the study of the ethics , processes , and people which constitute the maintenance of health for human beings . for the most part , however , the philosophy of healthcare is best approached as an indelible component of human social structures . that is , the societal institution of healthcare can be seen as a necessary phenomenon of human civilization whereby an individual continually seeks to improve , mend , and alter the overall nature and quality of their life . this perennial concern is especially prominent in modern political liberalism , wherein health has been understood as the foundational good necessary for public life . the philosophy of healthcare is primarily concerned with the following elemental questions : who requires and/or deserves healthcare ? is healthcare a fundamental right of all people ? what should be the basis for calculating the cost of treatments , hospital stays , drugs , etc . ? how can healthcare best be administered to the greatest number of people ? what are the necessary parameters for clinical trials and quality assurance ? who , if anybody , can decide when a patient is in need of " comfort measures " ( allowing a natural death by providing medications to treat symptoms related to the patient's illness ) ? however , the most important question of all is ' what is health ? ' . unless this question is addressed any debate about healthcare will be vague and unbounded . for example , what exactly is a health care intervention ? what differentiates healthcare from engineering or teaching , for example ? is health care about ' creating autonomy ' or acting in people's best interests ? or is it always both ? a ' philosophy ' of anything requires baseline philosophical questions , as asked , for example , by philosopher david seedhouse . ultimately , the purpose , objective and meaning of healthcare philosophy is to consolidate the abundance of information regarding the ever-changing fields of biotechnology , medicine , and nursing . and seeing that healthcare typically ranks as one of the largest spending areas of governmental budgets , it becomes important to gain a greater understanding of healthcare as not only a social institution , but also as a political one . in addition , healthcare philosophy attempts to highlight the primary movers of healthcare systems ; be it nurses , doctors , allied health professionals , hospital administrators , health insurance companies ( hmos and ppos ) , the government ( medicare and medicaid ) , and lastly , the patients themselves.
arizona cleaver stemons ( 1898 – march 1980 ) , born arizona leedonia cleaver , was an american social worker . while she was a student at howard university in 1920 , she was one of the five founding members of the zeta phi beta sorority , and its first president.
health care , or healthcare , is the improvement of health via the prevention , diagnosis , treatment , amelioration or cure of disease , illness , injury , and other physical and mental impairments in people . health care is delivered by health professionals and allied health fields . medicine , dentistry , pharmacy , midwifery , nursing , optometry , audiology , psychology , occupational therapy , physical therapy , athletic training , and other health professions all constitute health care . the term includes work done in providing primary care , secondary care , tertiary care , and public health . access to healthcare may vary across countries , communities , and individuals , influenced by social and economic conditions and health policies . providing health care services means " the timely use of personal health services to achieve the best possible health outcomes " . factors to consider in terms of healthcare access include financial limitations ( such as insurance coverage ) , geographical and logistical barriers ( such as additional transportation costs and the ability to take paid time off work to use such services ) , sociocultural expectations , and personal limitations ( lack of ability to communicate with health care providers , poor health literacy , low income ) . limitations to health care services affect negatively the use of medical services , the efficacy of treatments , and overall outcome ( well-being , mortality rates ) . health systems are the organizations established to meet the health needs of targeted populations . according to the world health organization ( who ) , a well-functioning healthcare system requires a financing mechanism , a well-trained and adequately paid workforce , reliable information on which to base decisions and policies , and well-maintained health facilities to deliver quality medicines and technologies . an efficient healthcare system can contribute to a significant part of a country's economy , development , and industrialization . health care is an important determinant in promoting the general physical and mental health and well-being of people around the world . an example of this was the worldwide eradication of smallpox in 1980 , declared by the who , as the first disease in human history to be eliminated by deliberate healthcare interventions.
there is empirical evidence of the causal impact of social relationships on health . the social support theory suggests that relationships might promote health especially by promoting adaptive behavior or regulating the stress response . troubled relationships as well as loneliness and social exclusion may have negative consequences on health . neurosciences of health investigate the neuronal circuits implicated in the context of both social connection and disconnection.
a wound healing assay is a laboratory technique used to study cell migration and cell–cell interaction . this is also called a scratch assay because it is done by making a scratch on a cell monolayer and capturing images at regular intervals by time lapse microscope . it is specifically a 2d cell migration approach to semi-quantitatively measure cell migration of a sheet of cells . this scratch can be made through various approaches , such as mechanical , thermal , or chemical damage . the purpose of this scratch is to produce a cell-free area in hopes of inducing cells to migrate and close the gap . the scratch test is only ideal for cell types that migrate as a collective epithelial sheets and not useful for non-adherent cells . specifically , this assay isn't ideal for chemotaxis studies.
pinchas ( " pini " ) ben-porat ( hebrew : פנחס בן פורת ; october 10 , 1914 -  - july 27 , 1955 ) was one of israel's first aviators . he was involved in the palavir , sherut avir , the iaf's 101 squadron , and el al.
the international association for cannabinoid medicines ( iacm ) , formerly known as the international association for cannabis as a medicine , is a non-profit scientific society founded in cologne in 2000 and dedicated to the advancement of knowledge of cannabis and cannabinoid medicines among medical professionals . iacm is one of the few global non-profit medical societies or associations related to cannabis and cannabinoids , along with the society of cannabis clinicians and the international cannabinoid research society.
transinstitutionalisation is the phenomenon where inmates released from one therapeutic community move into other institutions , either as planned move or as an unforeseen consequence . for instance , when the residential mental hospitals in the united states were closed as the result of a political policy change , the prison population increased by an equivalent number . in the united states patients that would have formerly have been in psychiatric hospitals wound up in general hospitals and private nursing homes which then became a growth industry . there is an over-representation of the mentally ill in corrective settings . there are 400,000 prison inmates with mental health problems , and 25–40 % of the mentally ill will spend some time in prison.
minority stress describes high levels of stress faced by members of stigmatized minority groups . it may be caused by a number of factors , including poor social support and low socioeconomic status ; well understood causes of minority stress are interpersonal prejudice and discrimination . indeed , numerous scientific studies have shown that when minority individuals experience a high degree of prejudice , this can cause stress responses ( e.g . , high blood pressure , anxiety ) that accrue over time , eventually leading to poor mental and physical health . minority stress theory summarizes these scientific studies to explain how difficult social situations lead to chronic stress and poor health among minority individuals.
the effects of climate change on human health are profound because they increase heat-related illnesses and deaths , respiratory diseases , and the spread of infectious diseases . there is widespread agreement among researchers , health professionals and organizations that climate change is the biggest global health threat of the 21st century . rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns are increasing the severity of heat waves , extreme weather and other causes of illness , injury or death . heat waves and extreme weather events have a big impact on health both directly and indirectly . when people are exposed to higher temperatures for longer time periods they might experience heat illness and heat-related death . in addition to direct impacts , climate change and extreme weather events cause changes in the biosphere . climate change will impact where infectious diseases are able to spread in the future . many infectious diseases will spread to new geographic areas where people have not previously been exposed to them . certain diseases that are carried and spread by living hosts such as mosquitoes and ticks ( known as vectors ) may become more common in some regions . affected diseases include dengue fever and malaria . contracting waterborne diseases such as diarrhoeal disease will also be more likely . changes in climate can cause decreasing yields for some crops and regions , resulting in higher food prices , less available food , and undernutrition . climate change can also reduce access to clean and safe water supply . extreme weather and its health impact can also threaten the livelihoods and economic stability of people . these factors together can lead to increasing poverty , human migration , violent conflict , and mental health issues . climate change affects human health at all ages , from infancy through adolescence , adulthood and old age . factors such as age , gender and socioeconomic status influence to what extent these effects become wide-spread risks to human health . : 1867 some groups are more vulnerable than others to the health effects of climate change . these include children , the elderly , outdoor workers and disadvantaged people . : 15
the patient reported outcome indices for multiple sclerosis ( primus ) is a disease specific patient-reported outcome questionnaire which measures the quality of life ( qol ) of patients with multiple sclerosis . the measure contains an assessment of quality of life , activity limitations and symptoms . a higher score on any or all of these scales indicates a lower quality of life due to the disease.
health has a variety of definitions , which have been used for different purposes over time . in general , it refers to physical and emotional well-being , especially that associated with normal functioning of the human body , absent of disease , pain ( including mental pain ) , or injury . health can be promoted by encouraging healthful activities , such as regular physical exercise and adequate sleep , and by reducing or avoiding unhealthful activities or situations , such as smoking or excessive stress . some factors affecting health are due to individual choices , such as whether to engage in a high-risk behavior , while others are due to structural causes , such as whether the society is arranged in a way that makes it easier or harder for people to get necessary healthcare services . still , other factors are beyond both individual and group choices , such as genetic disorders.
population health has been defined as " the health outcomes of a group of individuals , including the distribution of such outcomes within the group " . it is an approach to health that aims to improve the health of an entire human population . it has been described as consisting of three components . these are " health outcomes , patterns of health determinants , and policies and interventions " . a priority considered important in achieving the aim of population health is to reduce health inequities or disparities among different population groups due to , among other factors , the social determinants of health ( sdoh ) . the sdoh include all the factors ( social , environmental , cultural and physical ) that the different populations are born into , grow up , and function with throughout their lifetimes which potentially have a measurable impact on the health of human populations . the population health concept represents a change in the focus from the individual-level , characteristic of most mainstream medicine . it also seeks to complement the classic efforts of public health agencies by addressing a broader range of factors shown to impact the health of different populations . the world health organization's commission on social determinants of health reported in 2008 that the sdoh factors were responsible for the bulk of diseases and injuries , and that these were the major causes of health inequities in all countries . in the us , sdoh were estimated to account for 70 % of avoidable mortality . from a population health perspective , health has been defined not simply as a state free from disease but as " the capacity of people to adapt to , respond to , or control life's challenges and changes " . the world health organization ( who ) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as " a state of complete physical , mental , and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity."
the 2020 mid-season streamathon was an esports live stream event hosted by riot games , featuring international competitions and exhibition matches from multiple regions . it was the replacement for the 2020 mid-season invitational , which was cancelled due to the global covid-19 pandemic . the primary goal of the event was to raise money for covid-19 relief efforts.
forced circumcision is the circumcision of men and boys against their will . in a biblical context , the term is used especially in relation to paul the apostle and his polemics against the circumcision controversy in early christianity . forced circumcisions have occurred in a wide range of situations , most notably in the compulsory conversion of non-muslims to islam and the forced circumcision of teso , turkana and luo men in kenya , as well as the abduction of south african teenage boys to so-called circumcision schools ( " bush schools " ) . in south africa , custom allows uncircumcised xhosa-speaking men past the age of circumcision ( i.e . , 25 years or older ) to be overpowered by other men and forcibly circumcised.
the asthma life impact scale ( alis ) measure is a disease-specific patient reported outcome questionnaire which assesses the impact that asthma has on a patient’s quality of life . the questionnaire has 22 items , which goes beyond earlier focus on the symptoms , functioning and environmental triggers of asthma and includes emotional issues.
purity ( arabic : طهارة , ṭahāra(h ) ) is an essential aspect of islam . it is the opposite of najāsa , the state of being ritually impure . it is achieved by first removing physical impurities ( for example , urine ) from the body , and then removing ritual impurity through wudu ( usually ) or ghusl .