the dissenter act ( norwegian : dissenterloven , formally lov angaaende dem , der bekjende sig til den christelige religion , uden at være medlemmer af statskirken ( act concerning those who profess the christian religion without being members of the state church ) ) is a norwegian law from 1845 that allowed christian denominations other than the church of norway to establish themselves in the country . it was enacted on 16 july 1845 , and remained in effect until it was replaced by the act relating to religious communities , etc . ( lov om trudomssamfunn og ymist anna ) in 1969.
thomas erastus ( original surname lüber , lieber , or liebler ; 7 september 1524 – 31 december 1583 ) was a swiss physician and calvinist theologian . he wrote 100 theses ( later reduced to 75 ) in which he argued that the sins committed by christians should be punished by the state , and that the church should not withhold sacraments as a form of punishment . they were published in 1589 , after his death , with the title explicatio gravissimae quaestionis . his name was later applied to erastianism.
nilus the sandman is a canadian part-animated and part-live-action television series that originally aired on the family channel from 5 october 1996 to 25 october 1998 . the series was preceded by three nilus the sandman television specials broadcast between 1991 and 1994 on ctv . the series was produced by cambium film &  & video productions and delaney &  & friends cartoon productions , and distributed by the family channel and western international communications ( wic ) . the show features the sandman , named nilus ( voiced by long john baldry ) , who helps children and teenagers through their dreams while they are asleep , with the dream stories being animated . the scenes at the beginning and the end of each episode are shot in live action in vancouver , british columbia . the show has a total of 26 episodes which aired over two seasons . the show later aired on a channel in alberta and mtn in manitoba.
criticism of islam is questioning or challenging the beliefs , practices , and doctrines of islam . criticism of islam can take many forms , including academic critiques , political criticism , and personal opinions . criticism of islam has existed since islam's formative stages . early written disapprovals came from christians and jews as well as from some former muslims such as ibn al-rawandi . later the muslim world itself received criticism . western criticism of islam grew after the september 11 attacks and other terrorist incidents . objects of criticism include the morality of the life of muhammad , the founder of islam , in both his public and personal lives . issues relating to the authenticity and morality of the scriptures of islam , both the quran and the hadiths , are also discussed by critics . islam has also been viewed as a form of arab imperialism and has received criticism by figures from africa and india for the destruction of indigenous cultures . islam's recognition of slavery as an institution , which led to muslim traders exporting as many as 17 million slaves to the coast of the indian ocean , the middle east , and north africa , has also been criticized . the shafi'i version of islam has received criticism for advocating female genital mutilation and introducing this practice to southeast asia , where it was previously nonexistent . more recently , islamic beliefs regarding human origins , predestination , god's existence and nature , have received criticism for their apparent philosophical and scientific inconsistencies . another criticism focuses on the question of human rights in the islamic world , both historically and in modern islamic nations , including the treatment of women , lgbt people , and religious and ethnic minorities , as shown in islamic law and practice . as of 2014 , about a quarter of the world's countries and territories ( 26 % ) had anti-blasphemy and ( 13 % ) had anti-apostasy laws or policies . in 2017 , 13 nations , all of which were muslim majority nations , had the death penalty for apostasy or blasphemy . in the wake of the recent multiculturalism trend , islam's influence on the ability or willingness of muslim immigrants to assimilate in the host nations has been criticized . assimilationist arguments have also been made in other countries where muslims are a substantial minority , such as china , india and russia.
religious naturalism is a framework for religious orientation in which a naturalist worldview is used to respond to types of questions and aspirations that are parts of many religions . it has been described as " a perspective that finds religious meaning in the natural world . " religious naturalism can be considered intellectually , as a philosophy , and it can be embraced as a part of , or as the focus of , a personal religious orientation . advocates have stated that it can be a significant option for people who are unable to embrace religious traditions in which supernatural presences or events play prominent roles , and that it provides " a deeply spiritual and inspiring religious vision " that is particularly relevant in a time of ecological crisis.
jehovah's witnesses is a nontrinitarian , millenarian , restorationist christian denomination . in 2023 , the group reported approximately 8.6 million members . jehovah's witnesses believe that the destruction of the present world system at armageddon is imminent , and the establishment of god's kingdom over earth is the only solution to all of humanity's problems . the group emerged in the united states from the bible student movement founded in the late 1870s by charles taze russell , who also co-founded zion's watch tower tract society in 1881 to organize and print the movement's publications . a leadership dispute after russell's death resulted in several groups breaking away , with joseph franklin rutherford retaining control of the watch tower society and its properties . rutherford made significant organizational and doctrinal changes , including adoption of the name jehovah's witnesses in 1931 to distinguish the group from other bible student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of russell's traditions . jehovah's witnesses are known for their door-to-door preaching , distributing literature such as the watchtower and awake ! , and for refusing military service and blood transfusions . they consider the use of god's name vital for proper worship . they reject trinitarianism , inherent immortality of the soul , and hellfire , which they consider unscriptural doctrines . they do not observe christmas , easter , birthdays , or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with christianity . they prefer to use their own bible translation , the new world translation of the holy scriptures . adherents commonly call their body of beliefs " the truth " and consider themselves to be " in the truth " . they consider human society morally corrupt and under the influence of satan , and most limit their social interaction with non-witnesses . the denomination is directed by a group of elders known as the governing body of jehovah's witnesses , which establishes all doctrines . congregational disciplinary actions include formal expulsion and shunning , for what they consider serious offenses . baptized people who formally leave are considered disassociated and are also shunned . members are not allowed to socialize with a shunned individual . shunned individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed repentant . former members may experience significant mental distress as a result of being shunned , and some seek reinstatement to keep contact with their friends and family . the group's position on conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute state symbols ( like national anthems and flags ) has brought it into conflict with some governments . some jehovah's witnesses have been persecuted , and their activities banned or restricted in some countries . persistent legal challenges by jehovah's witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several countries . the organization has been criticized regarding biblical translation , doctrines , and alleged coercion of its members . the watch tower society has made various unfulfilled predictions about major biblical events , such as jesus ' second coming , the advent of god's kingdom , and armageddon . their policies for handling cases of child sexual abuse have been the subject of various formal inquiries.
the wheel of time or wheel of history ( also known as kalachakra ) is a concept found in several religious traditions and philosophies , notably religions of indian origin such as hinduism , jainism , sikhism , and buddhism , which regard time as cyclical and consisting of repeating ages . many other cultures contain belief in a similar concept : notably , the q'ero people of peru , the hopi people of arizona , and the bakongo people of angola and democratic republic of the congo.
the boethusians ( hebrew : בַיְּתּוֹסִים , romanized : ḇayyətōsīm ) were a jewish sect closely related to , if not a development of , the sadducees.
a religious reform ( from latin re - : " back , again " , and formare : " to form " ; i.e . put together : " to restore , reconstruct , rebuild " ) aims at the reform of religious teachings . it is not to be confused with an organizational reform of a religious community , though mostly this is a consequence of a reform of religious teachings.
the middle belt ( also spelt middle-belt ) or central nigeria is a term used in human geography to designate a belt region stretching across central nigeria longitudinally and forming a transition zone between northern and southern nigeria . it is composed of the southern half of the defunct northern region of nigeria , now comprising mostly the north central and parts of the north east and north west geopolitical zones , and is characterised by its lack of a clear majority ethnic group . it is also the location of nigeria's federal capital territory . the eminence of manifold minority groups , to some degree , constitutes an ethno-linguistic barrier in the country and draws a separation between the principally muslim north and the mainly christian south . the region is a convergence of these cultural domains and maintains a tremendous degree of ethno-linguistic diversity . afro-asiatic , nilo-saharan , and niger–congo languages are all spoken , which are three of the primary african language families . in the 1920s , it was described by melzian ( 1928:496 ) as the " middle zone " . some scholars argue that rather than a simple geographic definition , the middle belt represents a religious and cultural amalgamation of non-hausa christians.
in etruscan religion , the dii involuti ( " veiled " or " hidden gods " , also di involuti or dii superiores et involuti ) were a group of gods , or possibly a principle , superior to the ordinary pantheon of gods . in contrast to the ordinary etruscan gods , including the dii consentes , the dii involuti were not the object of direct worship and were never depicted . their specific attributes and number are unknown ; jean-rené jannot suggests that they may represent either an archaic principle of divinity or " the very fate that dominates individualized gods " . the sky-god tinia was believed to require their consent to cast the thunderbolt that announced disasters . according to seneca in his naturales quaestiones , the third manubia jupiter also sends , but he summons to council the gods whom the etruscans call the superior , or veiled gods [ diis quos superiores et involutos vocant ] , because the lightning destroys whatever it strikes and everywhere alters the state of private or public affairs that it encounters , for fire allows nothing to remain as it was . the dii involuti may be identical with the " secret gods of favour " mentioned by martianus capella . =  = references = = 
the book of hours of frederick of aragon or simply the hours of frederick of aragon ( paris , bnf , latin 10532 ) is a luxury book of hours , a private devotional book , made for frederick of aragon ( also known as frederick of naples ) between 1501 and 1502 . described as a " particularly accomplished work of art " , it is the result of cooperation between three different artists , ioan todeschino , jean bourdichon , and the master of claude de france . the 62 full-page miniatures were made by bourdichon , and have been described as some of his best work , while the border decorations were made by todeschino and the master of claude de france . following the death of frederick , the book probably eventually ended up in spain , and eventually entered the library of joseph bonaparte . it was eventually lost by him and finally bought by the predecessor of today's bibliothèque nationale de france , the french national library , in 1828 . it is kept in the library collections in paris and has been exhibited to the public on several occasions.
an easter bonnet is any new or fancy hat worn by women as a christian headcovering on easter . it represents the tail end of a tradition of wearing new clothes at easter , in harmony with the renewal of the year and the promise of spiritual renewal and redemption . as with the wearing of headcoverings by women during christian prayer and worship in general , the use of easter bonnets is inspired by the passage of 1 corinthians 11:1–13 in the bible . the easter bonnet was fixed in popular culture by irving berlin , whose frame of reference was the easter parade in new york city , a festive walkabout that made its way down fifth avenue from st . patrick's cathedral . berlin composed the song " easter parade " in 1917 , and wrote the familiar lyrics in 1933 : at the depths of the great depression a new hat at easter , or a refurbished old one , was a simple luxury . the broader english tradition of new clothes at easter has been noticed in late 16th century references by peter opie , who noted mercutio's taunting of benvolio in romeo and juliet : " did'st thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing his new doublet before easter ? " at just the same time thomas lodge's moralising pamphlet wits miserie ( london , 1596 ) recorded " the farmer that was contented in times past with his russet frocke &  & mockado sleeues , now sels a cow against easter to buy him silken geere for his credit " . in samuel pepys ' diary , 30 march ( easter day ) 1662 , he notes having my old black suit new furbished , i was pretty neat in clothes to-day , and my boy , his old suit new trimmed , very handsome . poor robin , an 18th-century english almanac maker , offered the doggerel at easter let your clothes be new or else be sure you will it rue and the notion that ill-luck would dog the one who had not something new at easter expanded in the 19th century . today the easter bonnet is a type of hat that women and girls wear to easter services , and ( in the united states ) in the easter parade following it . ladies purchased new and elaborate designs for particular church services and , in the case of easter , took the opportunity of the end of lent to buy luxury items . in certain localities such as boston , easter bonnets are becoming harder to find , while in other areas , such as burlington county in new jersey , easter bonnets remain popular . although the traditional easter bonnet is a hat with depictions of easter and spring with bunnies , flowers , eggs , etc . , recently more creative designers have been producing full face hat and mask taking the mantilla head dress from spain as their inspiration . nowadays a traditional girl's easter bonnet is usually white , wide-brimmed hat with a pastel colored satin ribbon wrapped around it and tied in a bow . it may also have flowers or other springtime motifs on top , and may match a special dress picked out for the occasion.
ebionites ( ancient greek : ἐβιωναῖοι , romanized : ebiōnaîoi , derived from hebrew אֶבְיוֹנִים , ʾeḇyōnīm , meaning ' the poor ' or ' poor ones ' ) as a term refers to a jewish christian sect that existed during the early centuries of the common era , whose name may have been taken from the first group of people mentioned in the beatitudes of jesus as blessed and meriting entry in the coming kingdom of god on earth . since historical records by the ebionites are scarce , fragmentary and disputed , much of what is known or conjectured about them derives from the polemics of their gentile christian opponents , specifically the church fathers — irenaeus , origen , eusebius , and epiphanius of salamis — who saw the ebionites as distinct from other jewish christian sects , such as the nazarenes . the church fathers generally agree on key points about the ebionites , such as their voluntary poverty and rejection of proto-orthodox christian beliefs in jesus ' divinity , pre-existence , and virgin birth ; they argue the ebionites believed that jesus was a mere man , born the natural son of joseph and mary , who , by virtue of his righteousness in perfectly following the law of moses , was adopted as the son of god to be a messiah . according to these patristic sources , the ebionites insisted on the necessity of following both the law of moses and the moral teachings of jesus to be righteous ; they revered james the just as an exemplar of righteousness and the true successor to jesus ( rather than peter ) , while rejecting paul as a false apostle and an apostate from the law . : 88 however , the church fathers diverge on details regarding some specific ebionite views about jesus ( the nature and mission of christ ) , their use of additional scripture to the hebrew bible ( one , some or all of the jewish–christian gospels ) , and their lifestyle practices ( religious vegetarianism , ritual washing , etc . ) . these variations reflect the esoteric and evolving nature of early christian sects , as well as the tendency of patristic polemicists to conflate different sects and misattribute unusual views and practices , more typical of gnostic christianity than jewish christianity , to ebionites to discredit them . : 39 some modern critical scholars argue the church fathers ' condemnation of ebionites as " heretics " and " judaizers " is both ironic and tragic , since many ebionite views may have been closer to the authentic views of not only the first disciples of jesus but also of the historical jesus himself.
the sonargǫltr or sónargǫltr was the boar sacrificed as part of the celebration of yule in germanic paganism , on whose bristles solemn vows were made in some forms of a tradition known as heitstrenging.
a spirit —in the sense in which the word is used in folklore and ethnography— is an " immaterial being " , a " supernatural agent " , the " soul of a deceased person " , an " invisible entity " or the " soul of a seriously suffering person " . often spirits have an intermediate status between gods and humans , sharing some properties with gods ( immateriality , greater powers ) and some with humans ( finite , not omniscient ) . thus , a spirit would have a form of existing and thinking ; it would exist without being generally visible ; often popular traditions endow it with miraculous powers and more or less occult influences on the physical world.
the bodhisattva vow is a vow ( sanskrit : praṇidhāna , lit . aspiration or resolution ) taken by some mahāyāna buddhists to achieve full buddhahood for the sake of all sentient beings . one who has taken the vow is nominally known as a bodhisattva ( a being working towards buddhahood ) . this can be done by venerating all buddhas and by cultivating supreme moral and spiritual perfection , to be placed in the service of others . in particular , bodhisattvas promise to practice the six perfections of giving , moral discipline , patience , effort , concentration and wisdom in order to fulfill their bodhicitta aim of attaining buddhahood for the sake of all beings . the vow is commonly taken in a ritual setting , overseen by a senior monastic , teacher or guru . whereas the prātimokṣa vows cease at death , the bodhisattva vow extends into future lives . the bodhisattva vows should not be confused with the bodhisattva precepts ( skt . bodhisattva-śīla ) , which are specific ethical guidelines for bodhisattvas.
a wake , funeral reception or visitation is a social gathering associated with death , held before a funeral . traditionally , a wake involves family and friends keeping watch over the body of the dead person , usually in the home of the deceased . some wakes are held at a funeral home or another convenient location . the wake or the viewing of the body is a part of death rituals in many cultures . it allows one last interaction with the dead , providing a time for the living to express their thoughts and feelings with the deceased . it highlights the idea that the loss is borne by the whole community and is a way of honoring the deceased member . the emotional tone of a wake is sometimes seen as more positive than a funeral due to the socially supportive atmosphere and the focus on the life rather than the death of the deceased.
women of the wall ( hebrew : נשות הכותל , neshot hakotel ) is a multi-denominational jewish feminist organization based in israel whose goal is to secure the rights of women to pray at the western wall , also called the kotel , in a fashion that includes singing , reading aloud from the torah and wearing religious garments ( tallit , tefillin and kippah ) . pew research center has identified israel as one of the countries that place " high " restrictions on religion , and there have been limits placed on non-orthodox streams of judaism . one of those restrictions is that the rabbi of the western wall has enforced gender segregation and limitations on religious garb worn by women . when the " women of the wall " hold monthly prayer services for women on rosh hodesh , they observe gender segregation so that orthodox members may fully participate . but their use of religious garb , singing and reading from a torah have upset many members of the orthodox jewish community , sparking protests and arrests . in may 2013 a judge ruled that a 2003 israeli supreme court ruling prohibiting women from carrying a torah or wearing prayer shawls had been misinterpreted and that women of the wall prayer gatherings at the wall should not be deemed illegal . in january 2016 , the israeli cabinet approved a plan to designate a new space at the kotel that would be available for egalitarian prayer and which would not be controlled by the rabbinate . women of the wall welcomed the decision , but the plan faced opposition from other factions , including some ultra-orthodox members of prime minister benjamin netanyahu's governing coalition , who threatened to withdraw over the government's plan to create non-orthodox prayer space at the western wall in deference to the women of the wall . in january 2017 , the israeli high court ruled that if the government of israel could not find " good cause " to prohibit women reading from the torah in prayer services at the kotel within 30 days , women could do so ; they also ruled that the israeli government could no longer argue that the robinson's arch area of the plaza is access to the kotel . the petition for women to read from the torah at the kotel had been brought by a group that split off from the women of the wall , calling itself the " original women of the wall " . in june 2017 , it was announced that the plan approved in january 2016 had been suspended . according to ronit kampf , the group's struggle has been " the most covered women's issue in the history of the israeli media."
religious tourism , spiritual tourism , sacred tourism , or faith tourism , is a type of tourism with two main subtypes : pilgrimage , meaning travel for religious or spiritual purposes , and the viewing of religious monuments and artefacts , a branch of sightseeing .